---
v: 3

title: Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman Over COSE (EDHOC) and Object Security for Constrained Environments (OSCORE) Profile for Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE)
abbrev: EDHOC and OSCORE profile of ACE
docname: draft-ietf-ace-edhoc-oscore-profile-latest
category: std
submissiontype: IETF

venue:
  group: Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ace)
  mail: ace@ietf.org
  github: ace-wg/ace-edhoc-oscore-profile

ipr: trust200902
area: Security
workgroup: ACE Working Group
keyword: Internet-Draft

coding: utf-8

author:
-
    ins: G. Selander
    name: Göran Selander
    org: Ericsson
    email: goran.selander@ericsson.com
-
    ins: J. Preuß Mattsson
    name: John Preuß Mattsson
    org: Ericsson
    email: john.mattsson@ericsson.com
-
    ins: M. Tiloca
    name: Marco Tiloca
    org: RISE
    email: marco.tiloca@ri.se
-
    ins: R. Höglund
    name: Rikard Höglund
    org: RISE
    email: rikard.hoglund@ri.se

normative:
  RFC3986:
  RFC4291:
  RFC4648:
  RFC5280:
  RFC6749:
  RFC7120:
  RFC7252:
  RFC7515:
  RFC7519:
  RFC7800:
  RFC8126:
  RFC8323:
  RFC8392:
  RFC8610:
  RFC8613:
  RFC8742:
  RFC8747:
  RFC8949:
  RFC9052:
  RFC9053:
  RFC9200:
  RFC9201:
  RFC9203:
  RFC9360:
  RFC9528:
  RFC9562:
  RFC9668:
  I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert:
  COSE.Header.Parameters:
    author:
      org: IANA
    date: false
    title: COSE Header Parameters
    target: https://www.iana.org/assignments/cose/cose.xhtml#header-parameters

informative:
  RFC4949:
  RFC8446:
  RFC9110:
  RFC9147:
  I-D.ietf-core-groupcomm-bis:
  I-D.ietf-ace-workflow-and-params:
  I-D.ietf-core-oscore-key-update:
  I-D.ietf-lake-authz:
  I-D.ietf-ace-coap-est-oscore:
  I-D.serafin-lake-ta-hint:

entity:
  SELF: "[RFC-XXXX]"

--- abstract

This document specifies a profile for the Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE) framework.
It utilizes Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman Over COSE (EDHOC) for achieving mutual authentication between an ACE-OAuth client and resource server, and it binds an authentication credential of the client to an ACE-OAuth access token.
EDHOC also establishes an Object Security for Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE) Security Context, which is used to secure communications between the client and resource server when accessing protected resources according to the authorization information indicated in the access token.
This profile can be used to delegate management of authorization information from a resource-constrained server to a trusted host with less severe limitations regarding processing power and memory.

--- middle


# Introduction

This document defines the "coap_edhoc_oscore" profile of the ACE-OAuth framework {{RFC9200}}. This profile addresses a "zero-touch" constrained setting where authenticated and authorized operations can be performed with low overhead without endpoint specific configurations.

Like in the "coap_oscore" profile {{RFC9203}}, also in this profile a client (C) and a resource server (RS) use the Constrained Application Protocol (CoAP) {{RFC7252}} to communicate, and Object Security for Constrained RESTful Environments (OSCORE) {{RFC8613}} to protect their communications. However, this profile uses the Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman Over COSE (EDHOC) protocol {{RFC9528}} to establish the OSCORE Security Context. The processing of requests for specific protected resources is identical to what is defined in the "coap_oscore" profile.

When using this profile, C accesses protected resources hosted at RS according to the authorization information specified in an access token, which is issued by a trusted authorization server (AS) and is bound to an authentication credential of C. This differs from the "coap_oscore" profile, where the access token is bound to a secret that is generated by AS and is used to derive the OSCORE Security Context.

Whereas {{RFC9200}} recommends the use of CBOR Web Tokens (CWTs) {{RFC8392}} as access tokens, this profile requires it (see {{access-token}}). Furthermore, this profile requires that, for messages exchanged between C and AS to request and provide an access token, the payload is encoded in CBOR {{RFC8949}} (see {{c-as}} and {{as-c}}), which ACE requires if CoAP is used (see {{Section 5 of RFC9200}}) and recommends otherwise (see {{Section 3 of RFC9200}}).

An authentication credential can be a raw public key, e.g., encoded as a CWT Claims Set (CCS) {{RFC8392}}; or a public key certificate, e.g., an X.509 certificate {{RFC5280}} or a CBOR-encoded C509 certificate {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}); or a different type of data structure containing the public key of the peer in question.

The ACE framework establishes what those authentication credentials are, and may transport the actual authentication credentials by value or uniquely refer to them. If an authentication credential is pre-provisioned or can be obtained over less constrained links, then it suffices that ACE provides a unique reference such as a certificate hash (e.g., by using the COSE header parameter "x5t" {{RFC9360}}). This is in the same spirit as EDHOC, where the authentication credentials specified in the ID_CRED_x message fields can be transported by value or referred to (see {{Section 3.5.3 of RFC9528}}).

In general, AS and RS are likely to have trusted access to each other's authentication credentials, since AS acts on behalf of RS as per the trust model of ACE. Also, AS needs to have some information about C, including the relevant authentication credential, in order to identify C when it requests an access token and to determine what access rights it can be granted. However, the authentication credential of C may potentially be conveyed (or uniquely referred to) within the request for an access token that C makes to AS.

The establishment of an association between RS and AS in an ACE ecosystem is out of scope, but one solution is to build on the same primitives as used in this document, i.e., EDHOC for authentication and OSCORE for communication security, using for example {{I-D.ietf-lake-authz}} for onboarding RS with AS and {{I-D.ietf-ace-coap-est-oscore}} for establishing a trust anchor in RS. A similar procedure can also be applied between C and AS for registering a client and for the establishment of a trust anchor.

## Terminology # {#terminology}

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

Certain security-related terms such as "authentication", "authorization", "confidentiality", "(data) integrity", "Message Authentication Code (MAC)", "Hash-based Message Authentication Code (HMAC)", and "verify" are taken from {{RFC4949}}.

RESTful terminology follows HTTP {{RFC9110}}.

Readers are expected to be familiar with the terms and concepts defined in CoAP {{RFC7252}}, OSCORE {{RFC8613}}, and EDHOC {{RFC9528}}.

Readers are also expected to be familiar with the terms and concepts of the ACE framework described in {{RFC9200}} and in {{RFC9201}}.

Terminology for entities in the architecture is defined in OAuth 2.0 {{RFC6749}}, such as the client (C), the resource server (RS), and the authorization server (AS).  It is assumed in this document that a given resource on a specific RS is associated with a unique AS.

Note that the term "endpoint" is used here, as in {{RFC9200}}, following its OAuth definition, which is to denote resources such as /token and /introspect at AS, and /authz-info at RS. The CoAP {{RFC7252}} definition, which is "An entity participating in the CoAP protocol", is not used in this document.

The authorization information (authz-info) resource refers to the authorization information endpoint as specified in {{RFC9200}}. The term "claim" is used in this document with the same semantics as in {{RFC9200}}, i.e., it denotes information carried in the access token or returned from introspection.

Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) {{RFC8949}}{{RFC8742}} and Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL) {{RFC8610}} are used in this document. CDDL predefined type names, especially bstr for CBOR byte strings and tstr for CBOR text strings, are used extensively in this document.

Examples throughout this document are expressed in CBOR diagnostic notation as defined in {{Section 8 of RFC8949}} and {{Appendix G of RFC8610}}. Diagnostic notation comments are often used to provide a textual representation of the numeric parameter names and values.

In the CBOR diagnostic notation used in this document, constructs of the form e'SOME_NAME' are replaced by the value assigned to SOME_NAME in the CDDL model shown in {{fig-cddl-model}} of {{sec-cddl-model}}. For example, {e'session_id' : h'01', e'cipher_suites': 3} stands for {0 : h'01', 2 : 3}.

Note to RFC Editor: Please delete the paragraph immediately preceding this note. Also, in the CBOR diagnostic notation used in this document, please replace the constructs of the form e'SOME_NAME' with the value assigned to SOME_NAME in the CDDL model shown in {{fig-cddl-model}} of {{sec-cddl-model}}. Finally, please delete this note.

# Protocol Overview {#overview}

This section gives an overview of how to use the ACE framework {{RFC9200}} together with the lightweight authenticated key exchange protocol EDHOC {{RFC9528}}. By doing so, the client (C) and the resource server (RS) generate an OSCORE Security Context {{RFC8613}} associated with authorization information, and use that Security Context to protect their communications. The parameters needed by C to negotiate the use of this profile with the authorization server (AS), as well as the OSCORE setup process, are described in detail in the following sections.

RS maintains a collection of authentication credentials. These are associated with OSCORE Security Contexts and with authorization information for all clients that RS is communicating with. The authorization information is used to enforce policies for processing requests from those clients.

The ACE framework describes how integrity protected authorization information propagates from AS to RS. This profile describes how C requests from AS an access token specifying authorization information for the resources that C wants to access at RS, by sending an access token request to the /token endpoint at AS (see {{Section 5.8 of RFC9200}}).

If the request is granted, then AS can provide C with an access token when sending a response to C, or instead upload the access token directly to RS as per the alternative workflow defined in {{I-D.ietf-ace-workflow-and-params}}. The latter option is not detailed further in this document.

After that, C and RS run the EDHOC protocol, with C using the authentication credential of RS obtained from AS. If C has obtained an access token from AS, then C specifies the access token within an External Authorization Data (EAD) field of an EDHOC message sent during the EDHOC session (see {{Section 3.8 of RFC9528}}). RS uses the authentication credential of C bound to and specified in the access token. How C and RS run EDHOC is detailed in {{edhoc-exec}}.

If C and RS successfully complete the EDHOC execution and the validation of each other's authentication credential, they are mutually authenticated and derive the OSCORE Security Context as per {{Section A.1 of RFC9528}}.

{{protocol-overview}} outlines an example of the message flow. A more detailed description of the message flow is shown in {{example-without-optimization}}.

From then on and as long as there is a valid access token, C effectively gains authorized and secure access to protected resources at RS using the established OSCORE Security Context. When RS receives a request from C protected with an OSCORE Security Context derived from an EDHOC session implementing this profile, then that OSCORE Security Context is used to retrieve the uniquely associated access token determining the access rights of C.

The OSCORE Security Context is discarded when an access token (whether the same or a different one) is used to successfully derive a new OSCORE Security Context for C.

~~~~~~~~~~~ aasvg

   C                            RS                       AS
   |                            |                         |
   | <==== Mutual authentication and secure channel ====> |
   |                            |                         |
   +-------- POST /token  ------------------------------->|
   |                            |                         |
   |<--------------------------------- Access Token ------+
   |                               + Access Information   |
   |                            |                         |
   +------- POST /edhoc  ------>|                         |
   |     (EDHOC message_1)      |                         |
   |                            |                         |
   |<------ 2.04 Changed -------+                         |
   |     (EDHOC message_2)      |                         |
   |                            |                         |
/ Derivation of OSCORE          |                         |
Security Context /              |                         |
   |                            |                         |
   +------- POST /edhoc  ------>|                         |
   |   (EDHOC message_3 with    |                         |
   |   access_token in EAD_3)   |                         |
   |                            |                         |
   |                / Derivation of OSCORE                |
   |                  Security Context /                  |
   |                            |                         |
   +----- OSCORE Request ------>|                         |
   |                            |                         |
   |<---- OSCORE Response ------|                         |
   |                            |                         |
~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #protocol-overview title="Protocol Outline using the EDHOC Forward Message Flow."}

As long as the OSCORE Security Context and the access token are valid, C can contact AS to request an update of its access rights, by sending a similar request as described above to the /token endpoint. This request also includes a "session identifier" (see {{edhoc-parameters-object}}) provided by AS in the response to the initial access token request, which allows AS to retrieve the data that it previously shared with C. The session identifier is assigned by AS and used to identify a series of access tokens, called a "token series" (see {{token-series}}).

If C has obtained an access token from AS for updating its access rights belonging to the same token series, then C transfers the access token to RS using the /authz-info endpoint as specified in {{Section 5.10 of RFC9200}}, where the exchanged CoAP messages are protected by the previously established OSCORE Security Context (see {{update-access-rights-c-rs}}). If the access token is valid, RS replies to the request with a 2.01 (Created) response.

Upon successful update of access rights, the new issued access token effectively becomes the latest in its token series also for RS, but the session identifier remains the same. When the latest access token of a token series becomes invalid (e.g., when it expires or gets revoked), that token series ends.

{{update-overview}} outlines the message flow for updating access rights.

~~~~~~~~~~~ aasvg

   C                            RS                       AS
   |                            |                         |
   | <====         Existing security context        ====> |
   |                            |                         |
   +-------- POST /token  ------------------------------->|
   |                            |                         |
   |<--------------------------------- Access Token ------+
   |                               + Access Information   |
   |                            |                         |
   +--- POST /authz-info  ----->|                         |
   |  (OSCORE protected with    |                         |
   |   access_token in payload) |                         |
   |                            |                         |
   |               / Updated access rights /              |
   |                            |                         |
   |<------ 2.04 Changed -------+                         |
   |                            |                         |
   |                            |                         |
   +----- OSCORE Request ------>|                         |
   |                            |                         |
   |<---- OSCORE Response ------|                         |
   |                            |                         |
~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #update-overview title="Protocol Outline for Updating Access Rights."}

# Client-AS Communication # {#c-as-comm}

The following subsections describe the details of the POST request and response to the /token endpoint between C and AS.

In this exchange, C provides AS with its own authentication credential AUTH\_CRED\_C. Then, AS issues the access token as securely bound to AUTH\_CRED\_C, by including it or uniquely referring to it in the access token. Together with the access token, AS provides C with a set of parameters that enable C to run EDHOC with RS. In particular, these parameters include information about the authentication credential AUTH\_CRED\_RS of RS, which is transported by value or uniquely referred to.

The request to the /token endpoint and the corresponding response can include EDHOC\_Information, which is a CBOR map object containing information related to an EDHOC implementation (see {{edhoc-parameters-object}}). This object is transported in the "edhoc\_info" parameter registered in {{iana-oauth-params}} and {{iana-oauth-cbor-mappings}}.

## C-to-AS: POST to /token endpoint # {#c-as}

The client-to-AS request is specified in {{Section 5.8.1 of RFC9200}}.

The client MUST send this POST request to the /token endpoint over a secure channel that guarantees authentication, message integrity, and confidentiality (see {{secure-comm-as}}).

When using this profile, the payload of the POST request MUST be encoded in CBOR {{RFC8949}}, i.e., the request has media-type "application/ace+cbor". In order to reduce the number of libraries that C has to support, it is RECOMMENDED that C and AS use CoAP as message transfer protocol, OSCORE as security protocol, and EDHOC to establish an OSCORE Security Context.

AUTH\_CRED\_C is specified in the "req_cnf" parameter {{RFC9201}} of the POST request, either transported by value or uniquely referred to.

For AUTH_CRED_C, its authentication credential type MUST be one of those supported by EDHOC, e.g., CBOR Web Tokens (CWTs) and CWT Claims Sets (CCSs) {{RFC8392}}, X.509 certificates {{RFC5280}}, and C509 certificates {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}. Consequently, the "req_cnf" parameter MUST specify a confirmation method suitable for the type of AUTH_CRED_C, e.g., "x5chain" or "x5t" when AUTH_CRED_C is an X.509 certificate transported by value or referred to, respectively.

Note that EDHOC does not admit the use of naked COSE_Keys as authentication credentials. The closest admitted authentication credential type is a CCS containing a COSE_Key in a "cnf" claim and possibly other claims, which can be transported by value using the confirmation method "kccs". Therefore, the "req_cnf" parameter MUST NOT specify the confirmation method "COSE_Key" (CBOR abbreviation: 1).

When receiving an Access Token request including the "req_cnf" parameter, AS checks whether it is already storing the authentication credential of C, namely AUTH_CRED_C, specified in "req_cnf" by value or reference.

If this is not the case, AS retrieves AUTH_CRED_C, either using the "req_cnf" parameter or some other trusted source. After that, AS validates the actual AUTH_CRED_C. In case of successful validation, AS stores AUTH_CRED_C as a valid authentication credential. Otherwise, the Client-to-AS request MUST be declined with the error code "unsupported_pop_key" as defined in {{Section 5.8.3 of RFC9200}}.

An example of client-to-AS request is shown in {{token-request}}. In this example, C specifies its own authentication credential by reference, as the hash of an X.509 certificate carried in the "x5t" field of the "req\_cnf" parameter.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
   Header: POST (Code=0.02)
   Uri-Host: "as.example.com"
   Uri-Path: "token"
   Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
   Payload:
   {
     / audience / 5 : "tempSensor4711",
     / scope /    9 : "read",
     / req_cnf /  4 : {
       e'x5t' : [-15, h'79F2A41B510C1F9B']
     }
   }
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #token-request title="Example of C-to-AS POST /token request for an access token."}

If C wants to update its access rights without changing an existing OSCORE Security Context, it MUST specify an EDHOC\_Information object in the "edhoc\_info" parameter of its POST request to the /token endpoint. The EDHOC\_Information object MUST include the "session\_id" field. This POST request MUST NOT include the "req_cnf" parameter. An example of such a request is shown in {{token-request-update}}.

The identifier "session\_id" is assigned by AS as discussed in {{token-series}}, and identifies an ongoing token series associated with the pair (AUTH\_CRED\_C, AUTH\_CRED\_RS). That is, previous access tokens in that series were issued by AS to C, as bound to AUTH_CRED_C and intended for RS as identified by AUTH_CRED_RS.

Note that the same "session\_id" value might identify multiple ongoing token series, e.g., if those are associated with the same client but different resource servers. In this case, AS can use the "session\_id" value together with other information such as the targeted audience (see {{Section 5.8.1 of RFC9200}}) and the authenticated identity of C, in order to determine the exact token series to which the new requested access token has to be added.

<!--
Editor's note: When retrieving the access token it is required to consider the pair (session id, AUTH_CRED_C). Here it is stated that the session id identifies the pair (AUTH_CRED_C, AUTH_CRED_RS). Why then isn't the session id sufficient for retrieving the access token, considering it identifies AUTH_CRED_C?

MT: Retrieving an access token based on the pair (session id, AUTH_CRED_C) happens at RS, when using the session id specified in the EDHOC EAD item.

Here on the AS, a series might be ongoing for (C, RS1) and another series might also be ongoing for (C, RS2). If C uses an authentication credential with RS1 and a different one with RS2, then both series can be legitimately identified by the same series id value, which thus might not sufficient to identify precisely one of C's authentication credentials. In practice, this is not an issue, since AS can rely on additional information such as audience.

The text above has been revisited, also based on the revised safer criterion for assigning new sender IDs at the AS in the next subsection.
-->

If the identifier specified in the "session\_id" parameter of the POST request identifies multiple, ongoing token series of which C has an access token, then C MUST specify the "audience" parameter in the POST request. In particular, the value of the "audience" parameter MUST be the same value of the "audience" parameter in the POST request that C previously sent to AS, for requesting the first access token in the token series to which the new requested access token has to be added.

AS MUST verify that the received "session\_id" identifies a token series to which a still valid access token issued for C and RS belongs. If that is not the case, the Client-to-AS request MUST be declined with the error code "invalid_request" as defined in {{Section 5.8.3 of RFC9200}}.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
   Header: POST (Code=0.02)
   Uri-Host: "as.example.com"
   Uri-Path: "token"
   Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
   Payload:
   {
     / audience /      5 : "tempSensor4711",
     / scope /         9 : "write",
     e'edhoc_info_param' : {
        e'session_id' : h'01'
     }
   }
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #token-request-update title="Example of C-to-AS POST /token request for updating access rights to an access token."}

## Token Series {#token-series}

This document refers to "token series" as a series of access tokens that are sorted in chronological order of release and are characterized by the following properties:

* Issued by the same AS.
* Issued to the same C, and associated with the same authentication credential of C.
* Issued for the same RS as identified by the same authentication credential.

Upon a successful update of access rights (see {{update-access-rights-c-as}}), the new issued access token becomes the latest in its token series. When the latest access token of a token series becomes invalid (e.g., due to its expiration or revocation), the token series it belongs to ends.

In this profile, a token series comprises access tokens that are used between a given pair (C, RS), are bound to the same authentication credential AUTH\_CRED\_C of C, and specify the same value in the "session\_id" field of the EDHOC\_Information object (see {{edhoc-parameters-object}}) in their "edhoc_info" claim.

AS assigns the value of "session\_id" when issuing the first access token of a new series. That "session\_id" value remains fixed throughout the series lifetime.

When assigning the "session\_id" value, AS MUST ensure that it was not used in a previous series whose access tokens share both the following properties with the access tokens of the new series, irrespective of the used ACE profile:

* issued to the same client C; and
* issued for the same RS.

In case the access token is issued for a group-audience (see {{Section 6.9 of RFC9200}}), what is defined above applies, with the difference that the token series is associated with all the RSs in the group-audience, as indicated by their respective AUTH_CRED_RS.

## AS-to-C: Response # {#as-c}

After verifying the POST request to the /token endpoint and that C is authorized to access protected resources at RS, AS responds as defined in {{Section 5.8.2 of RFC9200}}, with potential modifications as detailed below.

When using this profile, consistent with what is specified in {{c-as}}, the payload of the response from AS MUST be encoded in CBOR {{RFC8949}}, i.e., the response has media-type "application/ace+cbor".

If the request from C was invalid or not authorized, AS returns an error response as described in {{Section 5.8.3 of RFC9200}}.

AS can signal that the use of EDHOC and OSCORE as per this profile is REQUIRED for a specific access token, by including the "ace_profile" parameter with the value "coap_edhoc_oscore" in the access token response. This means that C MUST use EDHOC with RS and derive an OSCORE Security Context, as specified in {{edhoc-exec}}. After that, C MUST use the established OSCORE Security Context to protect communications with RS, when accessing protected resources at RS according to the authorization information indicated in the access token. Usually, it is assumed that constrained devices will be pre-configured with the necessary profile, so that this kind of profile signaling can be omitted.

 According to this document, the AS provides the access token to C, by specifying it in the "access\_token" parameter of the access token response. An alternative workflow where the access token is uploaded by AS directly to RS is described in {{I-D.ietf-ace-workflow-and-params}}.

When issuing the first access token of a token series, AS MUST include the following data in the response to C.

* The "edhoc\_info" parameter conveying an EDHOC\_Information object (see {{edhoc-parameters-object}}). The EDHOC\_Information object MUST include the "session\_id" field specifying the identifier of the token series which the issued access token belongs to.

  The EDHOC\_Information object MAY include additional fields (see {{edhoc-parameters-object}}) to convey information about RS. This information is based on knowledge that AS has about RS, e.g., from a previous onboarding process, with particular reference to what RS supports as EDHOC peer.

  In case the access token is issued for a group-audience (see {{Section 6.9 of RFC9200}}), the information specified in the EDHOC\_Information object refers to the group-audience as a whole. Therefore, it is appropriate for AS to define group-audiences comprising RSs that are all aligned in terms of supported EDHOC features and configurations.

* A unique identification of the authentication credential of RS, AUTH\_CRED\_RS. This is specified in the "rs\_cnf" parameter defined in {{RFC9201}}. AUTH\_CRED\_RS can be transported by value or referred to by means of an appropriate identifier.

   When issuing the first access token ever to a pair (C, RS) using a pair of corresponding authentication credentials (AUTH\_CRED\_C, AUTH\_CRED\_RS), it is expected that the response to C includes AUTH\_CRED\_RS by value.

   When later issuing further access tokens to the same pair (C, RS) using the same AUTH\_CRED\_RS, it is expected that the response to C includes AUTH\_CRED\_RS by reference.

   For AUTH_CRED_RS, its authentication credential type MUST be one of those supported by EDHOC. Consequently, the "rs\_cnf" parameter MUST specify a confirmation method suitable for the type of AUTH_CRED_RS. That is, the same considerations about AUTH_CRED_C and the "req_cnf" parameter made in {{c-as}} hold for AUTH_CRED_RS and the "rs\_cnf" parameter.

When issuing an access token for dynamically updating access rights (i.e., the access token is not the first in its token series), the response from AS MUST NOT include the "edhoc\_info" and "rs\_cnf" parameters (see {{update-access-rights-c-as}}).

{{fig-token-response}} shows an example of an AS response. The "rs_cnf" parameter specifies the authentication credential of RS, as an X.509 certificate transported by value in the "x5chain" field. The access token and the authentication credential of RS have been truncated for readability.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
   Header: Created (Code=2.01)
      Content-Format: application/ace+cbor
      Payload:
      {
        / access_token / 1 : h'8343a1010aa2044c53...0f6a'
          / remainder of access token (CWT) omitted for brevity /,
        / ace_profile / 38 : e'coap_edhoc_oscore',
        / expires_in /   2 : 3600,
        / rs_cnf /      41 : {
          e'x5chain' : h'3081ee3081a1a00302...77bc'
            / remainder of the credential omitted for brevity /
        }
        e'edhoc_info_param' : {
          e'session_id'    : h'01',
          e'methods'       : [0, 1, 2, 3],
          e'cipher_suites' : 0
        }
      }
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #fig-token-response title="Example of AS-to-C Access Token response with EDHOC and OSCORE profile."}

### Access Token {#access-token}

To avoid the complexity of different encodings, an access token of this profile SHALL be a CBOR Web Token (CWT) {{RFC8392}}.

When issuing any access token of a token series, AS MUST include the following claims in the access token:

* The "edhoc\_info" claim defined in {{iana-token-cwt-claims}} and conveying an EDHOC\_Information object (see {{edhoc-parameters-object}}).

  The EDHOC\_Information object MUST include the "session\_id" field specifying the identifier of the token series which the issued access token belongs to. The "session\_id" value is the same one included in the EDHOC\_Information object of the response to C from the /token endpoint (see {{as-c}}), when providing C with the first access token in the series.

* The "cnf" claim, specifying the authentication credential AUTH\_CRED\_C that C specified in its POST request to the /token endpoint, when requesting the first access token in the series which the issued access token belongs to (see {{c-as}}).

   In the access token, AUTH\_CRED\_C can be transported by value or uniquely referred to by means of an appropriate identifier. Yet, consistent with the considerations about AUTH\_CRED\_C and the "req_cnf" parameter made in {{c-as}}, the "cnf" claim of the access token MUST specify a confirmation method suitable for the type of AUTH\_CRED\_C.

   When issuing the first access token of a token series, the confirmation method used in the "cnf" claim MUST be the same one used in the "req_cnf" parameter of the corresponding POST request from C to the /token endpoint.

   When issuing the first access token ever to a pair (C, RS) using a pair of corresponding authentication credentials (AUTH\_CRED\_C, AUTH\_CRED\_RS), it is expected that AUTH\_CRED\_C is included by value in the "cnf" claim of the access token.

   When later issuing further access tokens to the same pair (C, RS) using the same AUTH\_CRED\_C, it is expected that AUTH\_CRED\_C is identified by reference in the "cnf" claim of the access token.

When issuing the first access token of a token series, AS MAY include additional fields in the EDHOC\_Information object (see {{edhoc-parameters-object}}) specified in the "edhoc\_info" claim of the access token. Specifically, if the following fields of the EDHOC\_Information object are specified in the response to C from the /token endpoint, they MUST be included with the same values in the EDHOC\_Information object within the access token.

* osc\_ms\_len: The size of the OSCORE Master Secret. If it is not included, the default value from {{Section A.1 of RFC9528}} is assumed.

* osc\_salt\_len: The size of the OSCORE Master Salt. If it is not included, the default value from {{Section A.1 of RFC9528}} is assumed.

* osc\_version: The OSCORE version. If it is not included, the default value of 1 (see {{Section 5.4 of RFC8613}}) is assumed.

The access token needs to be protected for various reasons. To prevent manipulation of the content, it needs to be integrity protected. Also, RS has to be able to verify that the access token is issued by a trusted AS, by achieving source authentication. Depending on the use case and deployment, the access token may need to be confidentiality protected, for example due to privacy reasons.

AS protects the access token using a COSE method {{RFC9052}} as specified in {{RFC8392}}. Depending on the audience, there can be different ways to most appropriately ensure the confidentiality of an access token. For an audience comprising a single RS, the CWT Claims Set may be wrapped in COSE_Encrypt / COSE_Encrypt0. Instead, if the access token needs to be read by multiple RSs, then the CWT Claims Set may be wrapped in COSE_Sign / COSE_Sign1 and confidentiality protection is applied during transport, by including the access token in the EAD\_3 field of EDHOC message_3 sent by C to RS, when using the EDHOC forward message flow (see {{edhoc-exec}}).

{{fig-token}} shows an example of CWT Claims Set, including the relevant EDHOC parameters in the "edhoc\_info" claim. The "cnf" claim specifies the authentication credential of C, as an X.509 certificate transported by value in the "x5chain" field. The authentication credential of C has been truncated for readability.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
   {
    / aud /   3 : "tempSensorInLivingRoom",
    / iat /   6 : 1563451500,
    / exp /   4 : 1563453000,
    / scope / 9 :  "temperature_g firmware_p",
    / cnf /   8 : {
      e'x5chain' : h'3081ee3081a1a00302...77bc'
        / remainder of the credential omitted for brevity /
    }
    e'edhoc_info_claim' : {
      e'session_id'    : h'01',
      e'methods'       : [0, 1, 2, 3],
      e'cipher_suites' : 0
    }
  }
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #fig-token title="Example of CWT Claims Set with EDHOC parameters."}

### Processing at C

When receiving an access token response including the "rs\_cnf" parameter, C checks whether it is already storing the authentication credential of RS, namely AUTH\_CRED\_RS, specified in "rs\_cnf" by value or reference.

If this is not the case, C retrieves AUTH\_CRED\_RS, either using the "rs_cnf" parameter or some other trusted source. After that, C validates the actual AUTH\_CRED\_RS. In case of successful validation, C stores AUTH\_CRED\_RS as a valid authentication credential. Otherwise, C MUST delete the access token.

### Update of Access Rights {#update-access-rights-c-as}

If C has a valid OSCORE Security Context associated with a valid access token, then C can send a request to AS for updating its access rights while preserving the same OSCORE Security Context.

If the request is granted, then AS generates a new access token, where the EDHOC\_Information object specified in the "edhoc\_info" claim MUST include only the "session\_id" field. The access token is provisioned to RS either via C as specified in this document, or directly as described in {{I-D.ietf-ace-workflow-and-params}}. In either case, the access token response from AS to C MUST NOT include the "edhoc\_info" and "rs\_cnf" parameters.

As defined in {{access-token}}, the "session\_id" field is included in the EDHOC\_Information object specified in the "edhoc\_info" claim of the new access token. This allows RS to identify the old access token to supersede, as well as the OSCORE Security Context already shared between C and RS and to be associated with the new access token.

## EDHOC_Information # {#edhoc-parameters-object}

EDHOC\_Information is an object including information that guides two peers towards executing the EDHOC protocol. In particular, the EDHOC\_Information is defined to be serialized and transported between nodes, as specified by this document, but it can also be used by other specifications.

In the "coap_edhoc_oscore" profile of the ACE-OAuth framework, which is specified in this document, the EDHOC\_Information object MUST be encoded as CBOR. However, for easy applicability to other contexts, we define also the JSON encoding.

The EDHOC\_Information can be encoded either as a JSON object or as a CBOR map. The set of common fields that can appear in an EDHOC\_Information can be found in the IANA "EDHOC Information" registry defined in {{iana-edhoc-parameters}} for extensibility. The initial set of parameters defined in this document is specified below. All parameters are optional.

{{table-cbor-key-edhoc-params}} provides a summary of the EDHOC\_Information parameters defined in this section.

| Name          | CBOR label | CBOR type            | Registry                                                                   | Description                                                                                                                                                                |
| session_id    | 0          | bstr                 |                                                                            | Identifier of a session                                                                                                                                                    |
| methods       | 1          | int or array         | EDHOC Method Type registry                                                 | Set of supported EDHOC methods                                                                                                                                             |
| cipher_suites | 2          | int or array         | EDHOC Cipher Suites registry                                               | Set of supported EDHOC cipher suites                                                                                                                                       |
| message_4     | 3          | True or False        |                                                                            | Support for EDHOC message_4                                                                                                                                                |
| comb_req      | 4          | True or False        |                                                                            | Support for the EDHOC + OSCORE combined request                                                                                                                            |
| uri_path      | 5          | tstr                 |                                                                            | URI-path of the EDHOC resource                                                                                                                                             |
| osc_ms_len    | 6          | uint                 |                                                                            | Length in bytes of the OSCORE Master Secret to derive                                                                                                                      |
| osc_salt_len  | 7          | uint                 |                                                                            | Length in bytes of the OSCORE Master Salt to derive                                                                                                                        |
| osc_version   | 8          | uint                 |                                                                            | OSCORE version number to use                                                                                                                                               |
| cred_types    | 9          | int or array         | EDHOC Authentication Credential Types registry                             | Set of supported types of authentication credentials for EDHOC                                                                                                             |
| id_cred_types | 10         | int or tstr or array | COSE Header Parameters registry                                            | Set of supported types of authentication credential identifiers for EDHOC                                                                                                  |
| eads          | 11         | uint or array        | EDHOC External Authorization Data registry                                 | Set of supported EDHOC External Authorization Data (EAD) items                                                                                                             |
| initiator     | 12         | True or False        |                                                                            | Support for the EDHOC Initiator role                                                                                                                                       |
| responder     | 13         | True or False        |                                                                            | Support for the EDHOC Responder role                                                                                                                                       |
| max_msgsize   | 14         | uint                 |                                                                            | Maximum size of EDHOC messages in bytes                                                                                                                                    |
| coap_ct       | 15         | True of False        |                                                                            | Requested use of the CoAP Content-Format Option in CoAP messages whose payload includes exclusively an EDHOC message, possibly prepended by an EDHOC connection identifier |
| ep_id_types   | 16         | int or array         | EDHOC Endpoint Identity Types registry                                     | Set of supported types of endpoint identities for EDHOC                                                                                                                    |
| transports    | 17         | int or array         | EDHOC Transports registry                                                  | Set of supported means for transporting EDHOC messages                                                                                                                     |
| trust_anchors | 18         | map                  | EDHOC Trust Anchor Purposes registry and EDHOC Trust Anchor Types registry | Set of supported trust anchors                                                                                                                                             |
{: #table-cbor-key-edhoc-params title="EDHOC_Information Parameters" align="center"}

* session\_id: This parameter identifies a 'session' which the EDHOC information is associated with, but does not necessarily identify a specific EDHOC session. In this document, "session\_id" identifies a token series. In JSON, the "session\_id" value is a Base64 encoded byte string. In CBOR, the "session\_id" type is a byte string, and has label 0.

* methods: This parameter specifies a set of supported EDHOC methods (see {{Section 3.2 of RFC9528}}). If the set is composed of a single EDHOC method, this is encoded as an integer. Otherwise, the set is encoded as an array of integers, where each array element encodes one EDHOC method. In JSON, the "methods" value is an integer or an array of integers. In CBOR, the "methods" is an integer or an array of integers, and has label 1.

* cipher\_suites: This parameter specifies a set of supported EDHOC cipher suites (see {{Section 3.6 of RFC9528}}). If the set is composed of a single EDHOC cipher suite, this is encoded as an integer. Otherwise, the set is encoded as an array of integers, where each array element encodes one EDHOC cipher suite. In JSON, the "cipher\_suites" value is an integer or an array of integers. In CBOR, the "cipher\_suites" is an integer or an array of integers, and has label 2.

* message\_4: This parameter indicates whether the EDHOC message\_4 (see {{Section 5.5 of RFC9528}}) is supported. In JSON, the "message\_4" value is a boolean. In CBOR, "message\_4" is the simple value "true" or "false", and has label 4.

* comb\_req: This parameter indicates whether the combined EDHOC + OSCORE request defined in {{RFC9668}}) is supported. In JSON, the "comb\_req" value is a boolean. In CBOR, "comb\_req" is the simple value "true" or "false", and has label 5.

* uri\_path: This parameter specifies the path component of the URI of the EDHOC resource where EDHOC messages have to be sent as requests. In JSON, the "uri\_path" value is a string. In CBOR, "uri\_path" is a text string, and has label 6.

* osc\_ms\_len: This parameter specifies the size in bytes of the OSCORE Master Secret to derive after the EDHOC session, as per {{Section A.1 of RFC9528}}. In JSON, the "osc\_ms\_len" value is an integer. In CBOR, the "osc\_ms\_len" type is unsigned integer, and has label 7.

* osc\_salt\_len: This parameter specifies the size in bytes of the OSCORE Master Salt to derive after the EDHOC session, as per {{Section A.1 of RFC9528}}. In JSON, the "osc\_salt\_len" value is an integer. In CBOR, the "osc\_salt\_len" type is unsigned integer, and has label 8.

* osc\_version: This parameter specifies the OSCORE Version number that the two EDHOC peers have to use when using OSCORE. For more information about this parameter, see {{Section 5.4 of RFC8613}}. In JSON, the "osc\_version" value is an integer. In CBOR, the "osc\_version" type is unsigned integer, and has label 9.

* cred\_types: This parameter specifies a set of supported types of authentication credentials for EDHOC (see {{Section 3.5.2 of RFC9528}}). If the set is composed of a single type of authentication credential, this is encoded as an integer. Otherwise, the set is encoded as an array of integers, where each array element encodes one type of authentication credential. In JSON, the "cred\_types" value is an integer or an array of integers. In CBOR, "cred\_types" is an integer or an array of integers, and has label 9. The integer values are taken from the "EDHOC Authentication Credential Types" registry defined in {{RFC9668}}.

* id\_cred\_types: This parameter specifies a set of supported types of authentication credential identifiers for EDHOC (see {{Section 3.5.3 of RFC9528}}). If the set is composed of a single type of authentication credential identifier, this is encoded as an integer or a text string. Otherwise, the set is encoded as an array, where each array element encodes one type of authentication credential identifier, as an integer or a text string. In JSON, the "id\_cred\_types" value is an integer, or a text string, or an array of integers and text strings. In CBOR, "id\_cred\_types" is an integer or a text string, or an array of integers and text strings, and has label 10. The integer or text string values are taken from the 'Label' column of the "COSE Header Parameters" registry {{COSE.Header.Parameters}}.

* eads: This parameter specifies a set of supported EDHOC External Authorization Data (EAD) items, identified by their ead\_label (see {{Section 3.8 of RFC9528}}). If the set is composed of a single ead\_label, this is encoded as an unsigned integer. Otherwise, the set is encoded as an array of unsigned integers, where each array element encodes one ead\_label. In JSON, the "eads" value is an unsigned integer or an array of unsigned integers. In CBOR, "eads" is an unsigned integer or an array of unsigned integers, and has label 11. The unsigned integer values are taken from the 'Label' column of the "EDHOC External Authorization Data" registry defined in {{RFC9528}}.

* initiator: This parameter specifies whether the EDHOC Initiator role is supported. In JSON, the "initiator" value is a boolean. In CBOR, "initiator" is the simple value "true" (0xf5) or "false" (0xf4), and has label 12.

* responder: This parameter specifies whether the EDHOC Responder role is supported. In JSON, the "responder" value is a boolean. In CBOR, "responder" is the simple value "true" (0xf5) or "false" (0xf4), and has label 13.

* max\_msgsize: This parameter specifies the admitted maximum size of EDHOC messages in bytes. In JSON, the "max\_msgsize" value is an unsigned integer. In CBOR, "max\_msgsize" is an unsigned integer and has label 14.

* coap\_cf: This parameter specifies whether it is required that CoAP messages include the CoAP Content-Format Option with value 64 (application/edhoc+cbor-seq) or 65 (application/cid-edhoc+cbor-seq) as appropriate, when the message payload includes exclusively an EDHOC message possibly prepended by an EDHOC connection identifier (see {{Sections 3.4.1 and A.2 of RFC9528}}). In JSON, the "coap\_cf" value is a boolean. In CBOR, "coap\_cf" is the simple value `true` (0xf5) or `false` (0xf4), and has label 15.

* ep\_id\_types: This parameter specifies a set of supported types of endpoint identities for EDHOC. If the set is composed of a single type of endpoint identity, this is encoded as an integer. Otherwise, the set is encoded as an array, where each array element encodes one type of endpoint identity as an integer. In JSON, the "ep\_id\_types" value is an integer or an array of integers. In CBOR, "ep\_id\_types" is an integer or an array of integers, and has label 16. The integer values are taken from the 'CBOR Label' column of the "EDHOC Endpoint Identity Types" registry defined in {{iana-edhoc-endpoint-identity-types}} of this document.

* transports: This parameter specifies a set of supported means for transporting EDHOC messages. If the set is composed of a single means for transporting EDHOC messages, this is encoded as an integer. Otherwise, the set is encoded as an array, where each array element encodes one means for transporting EDHOC messages as an integer. In JSON, the "transports" value is an integer or an array of integers. In CBOR, "transports" is an integer or an array of integers, and has label 17. The integer values are taken from the 'Transport ID' column of the "EDHOC Transports" Registry defined in {{iana-edhoc-transports}} of this document.

* trust_anchors: This parameter specifies a collection of supported trust anchors for performing authentication. According to what is specified within the collection, these trust anchors are used for different purposes, e.g., for verifying authentication credentials of other EDHOC peers in EDHOC sessions.

  More in detail, the collection of trust anchors is composed of one or more sets. Each set includes one or more trust anchors to use for one specific purpose associated with that set.

  In particular, each set is composed of pairs, each of which specifies a trust anchor type and an identifier of a trust anchor of that type. If the set is composed of a single pair, this pair is specified as a single item. If the set is composed of multiple pairs, these pairs are specified as elements of an array.

  Trust anchor purposes are selected from the "EDHOC Trust Anchor Purposes" registry defined in {{iana-edhoc-ta-purposes}} of this document. Trust anchor types are selected from the "EDHOC Trust Anchor Types" registry defined in {{iana-edhoc-ta-types}} of this document.

  In JSON, the "trust_anchors" value is an object with one or more outer entries, each of which is associated with a trust anchor purpose. The following applies for each outer entry:

  * The outer entry's key specifies the associated trust anchor purpose taken from the 'Name' column' of the "EDHOC Trust Anchor Purposes" registry.

  * The outer entry's value is an object or an array of at least two objects. Each object includes one inner entry, specifying the pair for a trust anchor TA of type TYPE. The inner entry is formatted as follows:

    - The inner entry's key specifies the TA's type TYPE taken from the 'Name' column of the "EDHOC Trust Anchor Types" registry.

    - The inner entry's value is the identifier of TA, whose encoding depends on TYPE. Such an encoding is what results from applying the conversion in {{Section 6.1 of RFC8949}} to the CBOR encoding of the identifier of TA when "trust_anchors" is encoded in CBOR (see below).

  In CBOR, the "trust_anchors" value is a map and has label 18. The map includes one or more outer entries, each of which is associated with a trust anchor purpose. The following applies for each outer entry:

  * The outer entry's key specifies the associated trust anchor purpose encoded as a CBOR integer, with integer value taken from the 'CBOR label' column of the "EDHOC Trust Anchor Purposes" registry.

  * The outer entry's value is a map or an array of at least two maps. Each map includes one inner entry, specifying the pair for a trust anchor TA of type TYPE. The inner entry is formatted as follows:

    - The inner entry's key specifies the TA's type TYPE encoded as a CBOR integer, with integer value taken from the 'CBOR label' column of the "EDHOC Trust Anchor Types" registry.

    - The inner entry's value specifies the identifier of TA, whose encoding depends on TYPE and is specified by the 'Value type' column of the "EDHOC Trust Anchor Types" registry, for the registry entry that has TYPE as value of the 'Name' column.

An example of JSON EDHOC\_Information is given in {{fig-edhoc-info-json}}.

~~~~~~~~~~~
   "edhoc_info" : {
       "session_id"    : b64'AQ==',
       "methods"       : 1,
       "cipher_suites" : 0,
       "trust_anchors" : {
         "edhoc_cred" : [
           { "c5u" : "coap://certs.c509.example" },
           { "x5u" : "coap://certs.x509.example" }
         ]
       }
   }
~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #fig-edhoc-info-json title="Example of JSON EDHOC_Information"}

An example of CBOR EDHOC\_Information is given in {{fig-edhoc-info-cbor}}.

~~~~~~~~~~~
   e'edhoc_info_param'  : {
     e'session_id'    : h'01',
     e'methods'       : 1,
     e'cipher_suites' : 0,
     e'trust_anchors' : {
       e'edhoc_cred' : [
         { e'c5t_ta_type' : [-15, h'81DC2F32CB87E163'] },
         { e'c5u_ta_type' : "coap://certs.c509.example" },
         { e'x5t_ta_type' : [-15, h'79F2A41B510C1F9B'] },
         { e'x5u_ta_type' : "coap://certs.x509.example" }
       ]
     }
   }
~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #fig-edhoc-info-cbor title="Example of CBOR EDHOC_Information"}

The CDDL grammar describing the CBOR EDHOC_Information is:

~~~~~~~~~~~
EDHOC_Information = {
  ?  0 => bstr,                   ; id
  ?  1 => int / array,            ; methods
  ?  2 => int / array,            ; cipher_suites
  ?  3 => true / false,           ; message_4
  ?  4 => true / false,           ; comb_req
  ?  5 => tstr,                   ; uri_path
  ?  6 => uint,                   ; osc_ms_len
  ?  7 => uint,                   ; osc_salt_len
  ?  8 => uint,                   ; osc_version
  ?  9 => int / array,            ; cred_types
  ? 10 => int / tstr / array,     ; id_cred_types
  ? 11 => uint / array,           ; eads
  ? 12 => true / false,           ; initiator
  ? 13 => true / false,           ; responder
  ? 14 => uint,                   ; max_msgsize
  ? 15 => true / false,           ; coap_ct
  ? 16 => int / array,            ; ep_id_types
  ? 17 => int / array,            ; transports
  ? 18 => map,                    ; trust_anchors
  * int / tstr => any
}
~~~~~~~~~~~


# Client-RS Communication # {#c-rs-comm}

This section describes the exchange between C and RS, including the execution of the EDHOC protocol and the uploading of the access token from C to RS. The alternative workflow, where AS uploads the access token directly to RS, is described in {{I-D.ietf-ace-workflow-and-params}}.

C and RS run the EDHOC protocol (see {{edhoc-exec}}), and C uploads the access token in an EAD field (see {{AT-in-EAD}}) of an EDHOC message. Once successfully completed the EDHOC session, C and RS derive an OSCORE Security Context (see {{oscore-security-context}}). After that, OSCORE is used for protecting communications when C accesses resources at RS, as per the access rights specified in the access token (see {{access-rights-verif}}).

Detailed examples are given in {{examples}}.

## EAD items for Access Token and Session Identifier {#AT-in-EAD}

This document defines EAD items (see {{Section 3.8 of RFC9528}}) for transporting an access token or a session idenfier in EDHOC.

* EAD\_ACCESS\_TOKEN  = (ead\_label, ead\_value), where:

  * ead\_label is the integer value TBD registered in {{iana-edhoc-ead}}.
  * ead\_value is a CBOR byte string equal to the value of the "access\_token" field of the access token response from AS (see {{as-c}}).

  This EAD item is critical, i.e., it is used only with the negative value of its ead\_label, indicating that the receiving RS must progress the protocol using the received access token, or else abort the EDHOC session (see {{Section 3.8 of RFC9528}}). A client or resource server supporting the profile of ACE defined in this document MUST support this EAD item.

  EAD\_ACCESS\_TOKEN is used only when uploading the first access token of a token series, but not for the update of access rights (see {{update-access-rights-c-rs}}).

  Editor's note: Add example.

* EAD\_SESSION\_ID  = (ead\_label, ead\_value), where:

  * ead\_label is the integer value TBD registered in {{iana-edhoc-ead}}.
  * ead\_value is a CBOR byte string equal to the value of the "session\_id" field within the EDHOC_Information object specified by AS in the "edhoc_info" parameter of the response from the /token endpoint, when issuing the first access token of a token series (see {{as-c}}).

  This EAD item is critical, i.e., it is used only with the negative value of its ead\_label, indicating that the receiving RS must progress the protocol using the access token associated with the identifier specified in "ead\_value" and with the AUTH_CRED_C used in the EDHOC session, or else abort the EDHOC session (see {{Section 3.8 of RFC9528}}). A client or resource server supporting the profile of ACE defined in this document MUST support this EAD item.

  EAD\_SESSION\_ID is used only if the access token has been provisioned to RS and is valid, but there is a need to establish a (new) OSCORE Security Context between C and RS through EDHOC.

  Editor's note: Add example.

## EDHOC Session {#edhoc-exec}

In order to mutually authenticate and establish secure communication for authorized access according to the profile described in this document, C and RS run the EDHOC protocol augmented with an access token. During the EDHOC session, C specifies the access token to RS by value as conveyed in EAD item EAD\_ACCESS\_TOKEN, or by reference through a session identifier SESSION\_ID conveyed in the EAD item EAD\_SESSION\_ID (see {{AT-in-EAD}}).

As per {{Section A.2 of RFC9528}}, EDHOC can be transferred over CoAP using either the forward or the reverse message flow, thus manifesting the two possible mappings between the ACE roles (client and resource server) and the EDHOC roles (Initiator and Responder), whereas the CoAP roles (client and server) remain the same. The choice of message flow and corresponding mapping depends on the deployment setting and in particular on which identity to protect the most, since EDHOC protects the identity of the Initiator against active attackers.

In case the EDHOC forward message flow is used (see {{forward}}), C acts as EDHOC Initiator, and the access token MUST be specified by value or by reference in the EAD\_3 field of EDHOC message\_3. In case the EDHOC reverse message flow is used (see {{reverse}}), C acts as EDHOC Responder, and the access token MUST be specified by value or by reference either in the EAD\_2 field of EDHOC message\_2 or in the EAD\_4 field of EDHOC message\_4. By doing so, the access token or the associated session identifier gets at least the same confidentiality protection by EDHOC as provided to the authentication credential used by C in the EDHOC session (see {{Section 9.1 of RFC9528}}).

When RS processes the EAD item EAD\_ACCESS\_TOKEN or EAD\_SESSION\_ID, RS MUST verify that the authentication credential AUTH\_CRED\_C that C specifies in the ID\_CRED\_X field during the EDHOC session is the same authentication credential correlated with the EAD item. If such a verification fails, RS MUST abort the EDHOC session. Note that:

* The ID\_CRED\_X field in question is the ID\_CRED\_I or ID\_CRED\_R field, when using the EDHOC forward or reverse message flow, respectively.
* If the processed EAD item is EAD\_ACCESS\_TOKEN, then the authentication credential correlated with the EAD item is specified in the 'cnf' claim of the access token conveyed in the EAD item.
* If the processed EAD item is EAD\_SESSION\_ID, then the authentication credential correlated with the EAD item is specified in the 'cnf' claim of an access token stored at the RS, which is associated with the authentication credential specified by ID\_CRED\_X and with the SESSION\_ID conveyed in the EAD item.

RS MUST have successfully validated the access token before completing the EDHOC session. If completed successfully, then the EDHOC session is associated with both the access token and the pair (SESSION_ID, AUTH_CRED_C). If the EAD item used in the EDHOC session is EAD\_ACCESS\_TOKEN, then SESSION_ID is specified by the "session_id" field, within the EDHOC\_Information object specified by the "cnf" claim of the access token.

Any previous EDHOC session associated with the same access token and with the same pair (SESSION_ID, AUTH_CRED_C) MUST be deleted. The OSCORE Security Context derived from that EDHOC session MUST also be deleted.

Depending on the message flow used, the EDHOC messages will be carried either in CoAP POST requests or in CoAP 2.04 (Changed) responses, as detailed in {{Section A.2 of RFC9528}}.

C MUST target the EDHOC resource at RS with the URI path specified in the "uri_path" field (if present) of the EDHOC\_Information object within the access token response received from AS, through which C obtained the first access token of the token series (see {{c-as}}). If the "uri_path" field is not present in that EDHOC\_Information object, C assumes the target resource at RS to be the well-known EDHOC resource at the path /.well-known/edhoc.

RS has to ensure that no requests can be performed on an EDHOC resource other than for running the EDHOC protocol. Specifically, it SHOULD NOT be possible to perform any other operation than POST on an EDHOC resource.

## Forward Message Flow {#forward}

This section details the case where the EDHOC forward message flow is used (see {{Section A.2.1 of RFC9528}}), i.e., where C acts as the Initiator I and RS acts as the Responder R.

Consistently with the EDHOC forward message flow, C sends EDHOC message\_1 and EDHOC message\_3 to an EDHOC resource at RS, as CoAP POST requests. RS sends EDHOC message\_2 and (optionally) EDHOC message\_4 as CoAP 2.04 (Changed) responses.

### EDHOC message\_1

The processing of EDHOC message\_1 is specified in {{Section 5.2 of RFC9528}}, with the following additions:

* The EDHOC method MUST be one of the EDHOC methods specified in the "methods" field (if present) of the EDHOC\_Information object within the access token response received from AS, through which C obtained the first access token of the token series (see {{c-as}})

* The selected cipher suite MUST be an EDHOC cipher suite specified in the "cipher\_suites" field (if present) of the EDHOC\_Information object within the access token response received from AS, through which C obtained the first access token of the token series (see {{c-as}})

### EDHOC message\_2

The processing of EDHOC message\_2 is specified in {{Section 5.3 of RFC9528}}, with the following additions:

* The authentication credential CRED\_R specified by the message field ID\_CRED\_R is AUTH\_CRED\_RS.

### EDHOC message\_3

The processing of EDHOC message\_3 is specified in {{Section 5.4 of RFC9528}}, with the following additions:

* The authentication credential CRED\_I specified by the message field ID\_CRED\_I is AUTH\_CRED\_C.

* Exactly one of the EAD items EAD\_ACCESS\_TOKEN or EAD\_SESSION\_ID MUST be included in the EAD\_3 field. If this is not the case, RS MUST abort the EDHOC session.

* If the EAD\_3 field includes the EAD item EAD\_ACCESS\_TOKEN, then RS MUST ensure that the access token specified in the EAD item is valid. If the EAD\_3 field includes the EAD item EAD\_SESSION\_ID, then RS MUST ensure that the access token associated with the session identifier SESSION_ID specified in the EAD item and with the AUTH_CRED_C used in the EDHOC session is valid.

  The validation follows the procedure specified in {{rs-c}}. If such validation fails, RS MUST reply to C with an EDHOC error message with ERR\_CODE = 1 (see {{Section 6 of RFC9528}}) and it MUST abort the EDHOC session.

  Editor's note: Instead of ERR\_CODE = 1, consider to use ERR\_CODE = 3 "Access Denied" defined in draft-ietf-lake-authz

## Reverse Message Flow {#reverse}

This section details the case where the EDHOC reverse message flow is used (see {{Section A.2.2 of RFC9528}}), i.e., where C acts as the Responder R and RS acts as the Initiator I.

Consistently with the EDHOC reverse message flow, C sends a trigger message, EDHOC message\_2, and (optionally) EDHOC message\_4 to RS as CoAP POST requests. RS sends EDHOC message\_1 and EDHOC message\_3 as CoAP 2.04 (Changed) responses.

Exactly one of the EAD items EAD\_ACCESS\_TOKEN or EAD\_SESSION\_ID MUST be included in either the EAD\_2 field of EDHOC message\_2 or the EAD\_4 field of EDHOC message\_4. If this is not the case, RS MUST abort the EDHOC session.

Specific instructions for the different messages are provided in the following subsections.

### Trigger Message

As specified in {{Section A.2.2 of RFC9528}}, the trigger message is an empty POST request that C sends to the EDHOC resource at RS, as intended to trigger a response conveying EDHOC message\_1.

In case the access token is issued for a group-audience (see {{Section 6.9 of RFC9200}}), then C can perform an EDHOC "roll call", by sending the trigger message as a group request over IP multicast {{I-D.ietf-core-groupcomm-bis}}. For the sake of efficiency, it is expected that the group-audience is appropriately associated with a CoAP group and/or application group (see {{Section 2 of I-D.ietf-core-groupcomm-bis}}), so that only the RSs belonging to the group-audience receive the trigger message. After that, C can receive a different EDHOC message_1 from each of the targeted RSs and separately progresses the corresponding EDHOC sessions, by sending a different EDHOC message_2 to each RS that has replied with an EDHOC message_1.

### EDHOC message\_1

The processing of EDHOC message\_1 is specified in {{Section 5.2 of RFC9528}}.

### EDHOC message\_2

The processing of EDHOC message\_2 is specified in {{Section 5.3 of RFC9528}}, with the following additions:

* The authentication credential CRED\_R specified by the message field ID\_CRED\_R is AUTH\_CRED\_C.

* If the EAD\_2 field includes the EAD item EAD\_ACCESS\_TOKEN, then RS MUST ensure that the access token specified in the EAD item is valid. If the EAD\_2 field includes the EAD item EAD\_SESSION\_ID, then RS MUST ensure that the access token associated with the session identifier SESSION\_ID specified in the EAD item and with the AUTH\_CRED\_C used in the EDHOC session is valid.

  The validation follows the procedure specified in {{rs-c}}. If such validation fails, RS MUST reply to C with an EDHOC error message with ERR\_CODE = 1 (see {{Section 6 of RFC9528}}) and it MUST abort the EDHOC session.

  Editor's note: Instead of ERR\_CODE = 1, consider to use ERR\_CODE = 3 "Access Denied"  defined in draft-ietf-lake-authz

### EDHOC message\_3

The processing of EDHOC message\_3 is specified in {{Section 5.4 of RFC9528}}, with the following additions:

* The authentication credential CRED\_I specified by the message field ID\_CRED\_I is AUTH\_CRED\_RS.

### EDHOC message\_4

The processing of EDHOC message\_4 is specified in {{Section 5.5 of RFC9528}}, with the following additions:

* If the EAD\_4 field includes the EAD item EAD\_ACCESS\_TOKEN, then RS MUST ensure that the access token specified in the EAD item is valid. If the EAD\_4 field includes the EAD item EAD\_SESSION\_ID, then RS MUST ensure that the access token associated with the session identifier SESSION\_ID specified in the EAD item and with the AUTH\_CRED\_C used in the EDHOC session is valid.

  The validation follows the procedure specified in {{rs-c}}. If such validation fails, RS MUST reply to C with an EDHOC error message with ERR\_CODE = 1 (see {{Section 6 of RFC9528}}) and it MUST abort the EDHOC session.

  Editor's note: Instead of ERR\_CODE = 1, consider to use ERR\_CODE = 3 "Access Denied"  defined in draft-ietf-lake-authz


## OSCORE Security Context {#oscore-security-context}

Once successfully completed the EDHOC session, C and RS derive an OSCORE Security Context, as defined in {{Section A.1 of RFC9528}}. In addition, the following applies:

* The length in bytes of the OSCORE Master Secret (i.e., the oscore\_key\_length parameter, see {{Section A.1 of RFC9528}}) MUST be the value specified in the "osc\_ms\_size" field (if present) within the EDHOC\_Information object specified by:

  - The "edhoc_info" parameter of the access token response that C received from AS, through which C obtained the first access token of the token series (see {{c-as}}).

  - The "edhoc_info" claim of the access token provisioned to RS (see {{access-token}}).

* The length in bytes of the OSCORE Master Salt (i.e., the oscore\_salt\_length parameter, see {{Section A.1 of RFC9528}}) MUST be the value specified in the "osc\_salt\_size" field (if present) within the EDHOC\_Information object specified by:

  - The "edhoc_info" parameter of the access token response that C received from AS, through which C obtained the first access token of the token series (see {{c-as}}).

  - The "edhoc_info" claim of the access token provisioned to RS (see {{access-token}}).

* C and RS MUST use the OSCORE version specified in the "osc\_version" field (if present) within the EDHOC\_Information object specified by:

  - The "edhoc_info" parameter of the access token response that C received from AS, through which C obtained the first access token of the token series (see {{c-as}}).

  - The "edhoc_info" claim of the access token provisioned to RS (see {{access-token}}).

* RS associates the latest EDHOC session and the derived OSCORE Security Context with the stored access token, which is bound to the authentication credential AUTH\_CRED\_C used in the EDHOC session. The access token is also associated with the pair (SESSION\_ID, AUTH\_CRED\_C), where SESSION\_ID is the identifier of the token series to which the access token belongs.

If supported by C, C MAY use the EDHOC + OSCORE combined request defined in {{RFC9668}}, unless the EDHOC\_Information object specified by the "edhoc_info" parameter of the access token response included the "comb\_req" field encoding the CBOR simple value "false" (0xf4).

In the combined request, both EDHOC message\_3 and the first OSCORE-protected application request are combined together in a single OSCORE-protected CoAP request, thus saving one round trip. This requires C to derive the OSCORE Security Context with RS already after having successfully processed the received EDHOC message\_2 and before sending EDHOC message\_3. An example is provided in {{example-with-optimization}}.

## Update of Access Rights {#update-access-rights-c-rs}

If C has a valid OSCORE Security Context associated with a valid access token at RS, then C can request from AS an update of the access rights as described in {{c-as}}.

If the request is granted, then AS generates a new access token containing updated access rights for C (see {{update-access-rights-c-as}}), in the same token series of the current access token (see {{token-series}}).

According to this document, AS provides the new access token to C (see {{as-c}}) for further uploading to RS. Alternatively, the new access token can be uploaded by AS directly to RS, as described in {{I-D.ietf-ace-workflow-and-params}}.

If all validations are successful, C can access protected resources at RS according to the updated access rights, using the previously established OSCORE Security Context.

The rest of this section describes the message exchange for the uploading of the new access token from C to RS.

### C-to-RS: POST to /authz-info endpoint # {#c-rs}

C can update its access rights by uploading the updated access token to RS using CoAP {{RFC7252}} and the Authorization Information endpoint as described in {{Section 5.10.1 of RFC9200}}.

That is, C sends a POST request to the /authz-info endpoint at RS, with the request payload containing the access token without any CBOR wrapping. As per {{Section 5.10.1 of RFC9200}}, the Content-Format of the POST request MUST be "application/cwt" to reflect the format of the transported access token.

C MUST protect the POST request using the current OSCORE Security Context shared with RS.

Upon receiving an access token from C, RS MUST follow the procedures defined in {{Section 5.10.1 of RFC9200}}. That is, RS MUST verify the validity of the access token. RS MAY make an introspection request (see {{Section 5.9.1 of RFC9200}}) to validate the access token at AS.

RS MUST check the following conditions:

* RS checks whether it stores an access token T_OLD, such that the "session\_id" field of the EDHOC\_Information object specified by the "cnf" claim matches the "session\_id" field of the EDHOC\_Information object specified by the "cnf" claim of the new access token T_NEW.

* RS checks whether the OSCORE Security Context CTX used to protect the request matches the OSCORE Security Context associated with the stored access token T_OLD.

If both the conditions above hold, RS MUST supersede the old access token T_OLD by replacing the corresponding authorization information with the one specified in the new access token T_NEW, and MUST associate T_NEW with the OSCORE Security Context CTX.

Note that C and RS do not execute the EDHOC protocol, they do not establish a new OSCORE Security Context, and AUTH_CRED_C remains the same.

###  RS-to-C: 2.01 (Created) {#rs-c}

If all validations are successful, RS stores the new access token in such a way that it is possible to retrieve it based on the pair (SESSION\_ID, AUTH\_CRED\_C), where SESSION\_ID is the identifier of the token series to which the access token belongs. Note that SESSION\_ID is specified in the "session\_id" field of the EDHOC\_Information object, within the "cnf" claim of the access token.

Then, RS MUST reply to the POST request by sending a 2.01 (Created) response with no payload. The response is protected with the same OSCORE Security Context used to protect the corresponding request. After that, C can access protected resources at RS according to the updated access rights, using the previously established OSCORE Security Context.

Instead, if any validation fails, RS MUST respond with a 4.01 (Unauthorized) error response. RS MAY provide additional information in the payload of the error response, in order to clarify what went wrong.

As specified in {{Section 5.10.1 of RFC9200}}, when receiving a valid access token with updated authorization information from C (see {{c-rs}}), it is recommended that RS overwrites the previous access token. That is, only the latest authorization information in the access token received by RS is valid. This simplifies the process needed by RS to keep track of authorization information for a given client.

## Discarding the OSCORE Security Context # {#discard-context}

There are a number of cases where C or RS have to discard the OSCORE Security Context that they share, and may establish a new one (see {{establish-new-context}}).

C MUST discard the current OSCORE Security Context shared with RS when any of the following occurs.

* The OSCORE Sender Sequence Number space of C is exhausted.

* The access token associated with the OSCORE Security Context becomes invalid, for example, due to expiration or revocation.

* C receives a number of unprotected 4.01 (Unauthorized) responses to OSCORE-protected requests, which are sent to RS and protected using the same OSCORE Security Context. The exact number of such received responses needs to be specified by the application. This can happen, for example, due to lack of storage at RS, which then sends the "AS Request Creation Hints" message (see {{Section 5.3 of RFC9200}}).

* The authentication credential of C (of RS) becomes invalid, e.g., due to expiration or revocation, and it was used as AUTH\_CRED\_C (AUTH\_CRED\_RS) in the EDHOC session to establish the OSCORE Security Context.

RS MUST discard the current OSCORE Security Context shared with C when any of the following occurs:

* The OSCORE Sender Sequence Number space of RS is exhausted.

* The access token associated with the OSCORE Security Context becomes invalid, for example, due to expiration or revocation.

* The authentication credential of C (of RS) becomes invalid (e.g., due to expiration or revocation), and it was used as AUTH\_CRED\_C (AUTH\_CRED\_RS) in the EDHOC session to establish the OSCORE Security Context.

After a new access token is successfully uploaded to RS and a new OSCORE Security Context is established between C and RS, messages still in transit that were protected with the previous OSCORE Security Context might not be successfully verified by the recipient, since the old OSCORE Security Context might have been discarded. This means that messages sent shortly before C has uploaded the new access token to RS might not be successfully accepted by the recipient.

Furthermore, implementations may want to cancel CoAP observations at RS, if registered before the new OSCORE Security Context has been established. Alternatively, applications need to implement a mechanism to ensure that, from then on, messages exchanged within those observations are going to be protected with the newly derived OSCORE Security Context.


## Establishing a New OSCORE Security Context {#establish-new-context}

The procedure of provisioning a new access token to RS specified in this section applies to various cases when an OSCORE Security Context shared between C and RS has been deleted, for example as described in {{discard-context}}.

Another exceptional case is when there is still a valid OSCORE Security Context but it needs to be updated, e.g., due to a policy limiting its use in terms of time or amount of processed data, or to the imminent exhaustion of the OSCORE Sender Sequence Number space. In this case, C and RS SHALL attempt to run the KUDOS key update protocol {{I-D.ietf-core-oscore-key-update}}, which is a lightweight alternative independent of ACE and EDHOC that does not require the uploading of an access token. If KUDOS is not supported, then C and RS falls back to EDHOC as outlined above.

In either case, C and RS establish a new OSCORE Security Context that replaces the old one and will be used for protecting their communications from then on. In particular, RS MUST associate the new OSCORE Security Context with the current (potentially re-uploaded) access token. Furthermore, the SESSION\_ID identifying the token series to which the access token belongs to remains unchanged, even if C and RS have established a new EDHOC session. Unless C and RS re-run the EDHOC protocol, they preserve their OSCORE identifiers, i.e., their OSCORE Sender/Recipient IDs.

## Access Rights Verification # {#access-rights-verif}

RS MUST follow the procedures defined in {{Section 5.10.2 of RFC9200}}. That is, if RS receives an OSCORE-protected request targeting a protected resource from C, then RS processes the request according to {{RFC8613}}, when Version 1 of OSCORE is used. Future specifications may define new versions of OSCORE, which AS can indicate C and RS to use by means of the "osc\_version" field of the EDHOC\_Information object (see {{c-as-comm}}).

If OSCORE verification succeeds and the target resource requires authorization, RS retrieves the authorization information using the access token associated with the OSCORE Security Context. Then, RS MUST verify that the authorization information covers the target resource and the action intended by C on it.

## Access Token Invalidity

When an access token becomes invalid (e.g., due to its expiration or revocation), RS MUST delete the access token and the associated OSCORE Security Context, and MUST notify C with an error response with code 4.01 (Unauthorized) for any long running request, as specified in {{Section 5.8.3 of RFC9200}}.

## Authentication Credential Invalidity # {#auth-cred-validity}

If an authentication credential AUTH\_CRED\_C of C is invalidated (e.g., it expires), then the following applies:

* RS MUST delete all the stored access tokens that specify AUTH\_CRED\_C in the "cnf" claim.

* C MUST delete every stored access token such that C obtained the first access token of the same series through the response to an access token request specifying AUTH\_CRED\_C, e.g., in the "req_cnf" parameter (see {{c-as}}).

* RS and C MUST abort and purge all the EDHOC sessions that used AUTH\_CRED\_C and successfully completed, as well as the OSCORE Security Context derived from those sessions (see {{discard-context}}).

If an authentication credential AUTH\_CRED\_RS of RS is invalidated (e.g., it expires), then the following applies:

* C MUST delete every stored access token such that C obtained the first access token of the same series through an access token response specifying AUTH\_CRED\_RS, e.g., in the 'rs_cnf' parameter (see {{as-c}}).

* C MUST delete every stored access token that C specified (by value or be reference) during an EDHOC session that used AUTH\_CRED\_RS and successfully completed.

* RS and C MUST abort and purge all the EDHOC sessions that used AUTH\_CRED\_RS and successfully completed, as well as the OSCORE Security Context derived from those sessions (see {{discard-context}}).

## EDHOC Session Invalidity # {#session-validity}

If an EDHOC session is aborted and purged for other reasons than those in {{auth-cred-validity}}, then RS and C that established the session MUST delete the OSCORE Security Context derived from that session (see {{discard-context}}).

## Using AS Request Creation Hints

When replying to an unauthorized resource request message from a client, RS can send an unprotected AS Request Creation Hints message as a 4.01 (Unauthorized) error response (see {{Section 5.3 of RFC9200}}).

The message payload can specify a number of parameters that help the sender client acquire a valid access token from AS. These parameters include "audience" and "scope".

When using this profile and running EDHOC per its reverse message flow (see {{reverse}}), RS acts as EDHOC Initiator. A compelling reason to do so is the wish to protect the identity of RS against active attackers, consistently with the EDHOC security properties.

However, the identity protection achieved through EDHOC can be defeated if RS exposes information such as audience and scope, when specifying the corresponding parameters in an unprotected AS Request Creation Hints message.

Therefore, if RS supports the EDHOC reverse message flow and sends an AS Request Creation Hints, the following applies:

* The message payload MUST NOT include the "audience" parameter.

* The message payload SHOULD NOT include the "scope" parameter, unless its value cannot contribute to expose the identity of RS.


# Secure Communication with AS # {#secure-comm-as}

As specified in the ACE framework (see {{Sections 5.8 and 5.9 of RFC9200}}), the requesting entity (RS and/or C) and AS communicates via the /token or /introspect endpoint. When using this profile, the use of CoAP {{RFC7252}} and OSCORE {{RFC8613}} for this communication is RECOMMENDED. Other protocols fulfilling the security requirements defined in {{Section 5 of RFC9200}} (such as HTTP and DTLS {{RFC9147}} or TLS {{RFC8446}}) MAY be used instead.

If OSCORE is used, the requesting entity and AS need to have an OSCORE Security Context in place. While this can be pre-installed, the requesting entity and AS can establish such an OSCORE Security Context, for example, by running the EDHOC protocol, as shown between C and AS by the examples in {{example-without-optimization}} and {{example-with-optimization}}. This also applies for communication between RS and AS, for example to protect the upload of access tokens from AS directly to RS as described in {{I-D.ietf-ace-workflow-and-params}}.

# CWT Confirmation Methods

This document defines a number of new CWT confirmation methods (see {{iana-cwt-confirmation-methods}}). The semantics of each confirmation method is defined below.

## Ordered Chain of X.509 Certificates # {#ssec-cwt-conf-x5chain}

The confirmation method "x5chain" specifies an ordered array of X.509 certificates {{RFC5280}}. The semantics of "x5chain" is like that of the "x5chain" COSE Header Parameter specified in {{RFC9360}}.

## Unordered Bag of X.509 Certificates # {#ssec-cwt-conf-x5bag}

The confirmation method "x5bag" specifies a bag of X.509 certificates {{RFC5280}}. The semantics of "x5bag" is like that of the "x5bag" COSE Header Parameter specified in {{RFC9360}}.

## Hash of an X.509 Certificate # {#ssec-cwt-conf-x5t}

The confirmation method "x5t" specifies the hash value of the end-entity X.509 certificate {{RFC5280}}. The semantics of "x5t" is like that of the "x5t" COSE Header Parameter specified in {{RFC9360}}.

## URI Pointing to an Ordered Chain of X.509 Certificates # {#ssec-cwt-conf-x5u}

The confirmation method "x5u" specifies the URI {{RFC3986}} of an ordered chain of X.509 certificates {{RFC5280}}. The semantics of "x5u" is like that of the "x5u" COSE Header Parameter specified in {{RFC9360}}.

## Ordered Chain of C509 Certificates # {#ssec-cwt-conf-c5c}

The confirmation method "c5c" specifies an ordered array of C509 certificates {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}. The semantics of "c5c" is like that of the "c5c" COSE Header Parameter specified in {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}.

## Unordered Bag of C509 Certificates # {#ssec-cwt-conf-c5b}

The confirmation method "c5b" specifies a bag of C509 certificates {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}. The semantics of "c5b" is like that of the "c5b" COSE Header Parameter specified in {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}.

## Hash of a C509 Certificate # {#ssec-cwt-conf-c5t}

The confirmation method "c5t" specifies the hash value of the end-entity C509 certificate {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}. The semantics of "c5t" is like that of the "c5t" COSE Header Parameter specified in {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}.

## URI Pointing to an Ordered Chain of C509 Certificates # {#ssec-cwt-conf-c5u}

The confirmation method "c5u" specifies the URI {{RFC3986}} of a COSE_C509 containing an ordered chain of C509 certificates {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}. COSE_C509 is defined in {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}. The semantics of "c5u" is like that of the "c5u" COSE Header Parameter specified in {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}.

## CWT Containing a COSE_Key # {#ssec-cwt-conf-kcwt}

The confirmation method "kcwt" specifies a CBOR Web Token (CWT) {{RFC8392}} containing a COSE_Key {{RFC9053}} in a 'cnf' claim and possibly other claims. The semantics of "kcwt" is like that of the "kcwt" COSE Header Parameter specified in {{RFC9528}}.

## CCS Containing a COSE_Key # {#ssec-cwt-conf-kccs}

The confirmation method "kccs" specifies a CWT Claims Set (CCS) {{RFC8392}} containing a COSE_Key {{RFC9053}} in a 'cnf' claim and possibly other claims. The semantics of "kccs" is like that of the "kccs" COSE Header Parameter specified in {{RFC9528}}.

# JWT Confirmation Methods

This document defines a number of new JWT confirmation methods (see {{iana-jwt-confirmation-methods}}). The semantics of each confirmation method is defined below.

## Ordered Chain of X.509 Certificates # {#ssec-jwt-conf-x5c}

The confirmation method "x5c" specifies an ordered array of X.509 certificates {{RFC5280}}. The semantics of "x5c" is like that of the "x5c" JSON Web Signature and Encryption Header Parameter specified in {{RFC7515}}, with the following difference. The public key contained in the first certificate is the proof-of-possession key and does not have to correspond to a key used to digitally sign the JWS.

## Unordered Bag of X.509 Certificates # {#ssec-jwt-conf-x5b}

The confirmation method "x5b" specifies a bag of X.509 certificates {{RFC5280}}. The semantics of the "x5b" is like that of the "x5c" JWT confirmation method defined in {{ssec-jwt-conf-x5c}}, with the following differences. First, the set of certificates is unordered and may contain self-signed certificates. Second, the composition and processing of "x5b" are like for the "x5bag" COSE Header Parameter defined in {{RFC9360}}.

## Hash of an X.509 Certificate # {#ssec-jwt-conf-x5t}

The confirmation method "x5t" specifies the hash value of the end-entity X.509 certificate {{RFC5280}}. The semantics of "x5t" is like that of the "x5t" JSON Web Signature and Encryption Header Parameter specified in {{RFC7515}}.

## URI Pointing to an Ordered Chain of X.509 Certificates # {#ssec-jwt-conf-x5u}

The confirmation method "x5u" specifies the URI {{RFC3986}} of an ordered chain of X.509 certificates {{RFC5280}}. The semantics of "x5u" is like that of the "x5u" COSE Header Parameter specified in {{RFC9360}}, with the following difference. The public key contained in the first certificate is the proof-of-possession key and does not have to correspond to a key used to digitally sign the JWS.

## Ordered Chain of C509 Certificates # {#ssec-jwt-conf-c5c}

The confirmation method "c5c" specifies an ordered array of C509 certificates {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}. The semantics of "c5c" is like that of the "x5c" JWT confirmation method defined in {{ssec-jwt-conf-x5c}}, with the following difference. Each string in the JSON array is a base64-encoded ({{Section 4 of RFC4648}} - not base64url-encoded) C509 certificate.

## Unordered Bag of C509 Certificates # {#ssec-jwt-conf-c5b}

The confirmation method "c5b" specifies a bag of C509 certificates {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}. The semantics of "c5b" is like that of the "c5c" JWT confirmation method defined in {{ssec-jwt-conf-c5c}}, with the following differences. First, the set of certificates is unordered and may contain self-signed certificates. Second, the composition and processing of "c5b" is like for the "c5b" COSE Header Parameter defined in {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}.

## Hash of a C09 Certificate # {#ssec-jwt-conf-c5t}

The confirmation method "c5t" specifies the hash value of the end-entity C509 certificate {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}. The semantics of "c5t" is like that of the "x5t" JWT confirmation method defined in {{ssec-jwt-conf-x5t}}, with the following differences. First, the base64url-encoded SHA-1 thumbprint is computed over the C509 certificate. Second, the public key contained in the C509 certificate does not have to correspond to a key used to digitally sign the JWS.

## URI Pointing to an Ordered Chain of C509 Certificates # {#ssec-jwt-conf-c5u}

The confirmation method "c5u" specifies the URI {{RFC3986}} of COSE_C509 containing an ordered chain of C509 certificates {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}. COSE_C509 is defined in {{I-D.ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert}}. The semantics of "c5u" is like that of the "x5u" JWT confirmation method defined in {{ssec-jwt-conf-x5u}}, with the following differences. First, the URI refers to a resource for the C509 certificate chain. Second, the public key contained in one of the C509 certificates and acting as proof-of-possession key does not have to correspond to a key used to digitally sign the JWS.

## CWT Containing a COSE_Key # {#ssec-jwt-conf-kcwt}

The confirmation method "kcwt" specifies a CBOR Web Token (CWT) {{RFC8392}} containing a COSE_Key {{RFC9053}} in a 'cnf' claim and possibly other claims. The format of "kcwt" is the base64url-encoded serialization of the CWT.

## CCS Containing a COSE_Key # {#ssec-jwt-conf-kccs}

The confirmation method "kccs" specifies a CWT Claims Set (CCS) {{RFC8392}} containing a COSE_Key {{RFC9053}} in a 'cnf' claim and possibly other claims. The format of "kcwt" is the base64url-encoded serialization of the CWT.

# EDHOC Endpoint Identity Types # {#sec-edhoc-endpoint-identity-types}

This document defines the following identifier of type of endpoint identity for EDHOC.

Note to RFC Editor: Please replace all occurrences of "\[RFC-XXXX\]" with the RFC number of this specification and delete this paragraph.

| Name   | CBOR label | Description        | Reference            |
| EUI-64 | 0          | An EUI-64 identity | {{&SELF}}{{RFC4291}} |
{: #table-edhoc-endpoint-identity-types title="EDHOC Endpoint Identity Types" align="center"}

# EDHOC Transports # {#sec-edhoc-transports}

This document defines the following identifiers of means for transporting EDHOC messages.

| Transport ID | Name                 | Description                                                                                     | Reference                               |
| 0            | CoAP over UDP        | EDHOC messages are transported as payload of CoAP messages, in turn transported over UDP        | {{RFC7252}}, {{Section A.2 of RFC9528}} |
| 1            | CoAP over TCP        | EDHOC messages are transported as payload of CoAP messages, in turn transported over TCP        | {{RFC7252}}{{RFC8323}}                  |
| 2            | CoAP over WebSockets | EDHOC messages are transported as payload of CoAP messages, in turn transported over WebSockets | {{RFC7252}}{{RFC8323}}                  |
{: #table-edhoc-transports title="EDHOC Transports" align="center"}

# EDHOC Trust Anchor Purposes # {#sec-edhoc-ta-purposes}

This document defines the following EDHOC trust anchor purpose.

Note to RFC Editor: Please replace all occurrences of "\[RFC-XXXX\]" with the RFC number of this specification and delete this paragraph.

| Name       | CBOR label | Description                                                                 | Reference            |
| edhoc_cred | 0          | Verifying authentication credentials of other EDHOC peers in EDHOC sessions | {{&SELF}}{{RFC9528}} |
{: #table-edhoc-ta-purposes title="EDHOC Trust Anchor Purposes" align="center"}

Trust anchors with purpose "edhoc_cred" are used for verifying authentication credentials of other EDHOC peers in an EDHOC session, and they typically are authentication credentials of Certificate Authorities (CAs).

# EDHOC Trust Anchor Types # {#sec-edhoc-ta-types}

This document defines the following EDHOC trust anchor types.

Note to RFC Editor: Please replace all occurrences of "\[RFC-XXXX\]" with the RFC number of this specification and delete this paragraph.

| Name | CBOR label | Value type    | Description                                                            | Reference                                      |
| uuid | 0          | #6.37(bstr)   | Binary CBOR-encoded UUID                                               | {{&SELF}}{{RFC9562}}                           |
| kid  | 4          | bstr          | Key identifier                                                         | {{&SELF}}{{RFC9052}}                           |
| c5t  | 22         | COSE_CertHash | Hash of a C509 certificate                                             | {{&SELF}}\[draft-ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert\] |
| c5u  | 23         | uri           | URI pointing to a COSE_C509 containing a ordered chain of certificates | {{&SELF}}\[draft-ietf-cose-cbor-encoded-cert\] |
| x5t  | 34         | COSE_CertHash | Hash of an X.509 certificate                                           | {{&SELF}}{{RFC9360}}                           |
| x5u  | 35         | uri           | URI pointing to an X.509 certificate                                   | {{&SELF}}{{RFC9360}}                           |
{: #table-edhoc-ta-types title="EDHOC Trust Anchor Types" align="center"}

# Security Considerations

This document specifies a profile for the Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE) framework {{RFC9200}}. Thus, the general security considerations from the ACE framework also apply to this profile.

Furthermore, the security considerations from OSCORE {{RFC8613}} and from EDHOC {{RFC9528}} also apply to this specific use of the OSCORE and EDHOC protocols.

As previously stated, once completed the EDHOC session, C and RS are mutually authenticated through their respective authentication credentials, whose retrieval has been facilitated by AS. Also once completed the EDHOC session, C and RS have established a long-term secret key PRK\_out enjoying forward secrecy. This is in turn used by C and RS to establish an OSCORE Security Context.

Furthermore, RS achieves confirmation that C has PRK\_out (proof-of-possession) when completing the EDHOC session. Rather, C achieves confirmation that RS has PRK\_out (proof-of-possession) either when receiving the optional EDHOC message\_4 from RS, or when successfully verifying a response from RS protected with the established OSCORE Security Context.

OSCORE is designed to secure point-to-point communication, providing a secure binding between a request and the corresponding response(s). Thus, the basic OSCORE protocol is not intended for use in point-to-multipoint communication (e.g., enforced via multicast or a publish-subscribe model). Implementers of this profile should make sure that their use case of OSCORE corresponds to the expected one, in order to prevent weakening the security assurances provided by OSCORE.

When using this profile, it is RECOMMENDED that RS stores only one access token per client. The use of multiple access tokens for a single client increases the strain on RS, since it must consider every access token associated with the client and calculate the actual permissions that client has. Also, access tokens indicating different or disjoint permissions from each other may lead RS to enforce wrong permissions.  If one of the access tokens expires earlier than others, the resulting permissions may offer insufficient protection. Developers SHOULD avoid using multiple access tokens for a same client. Furthermore, RS MUST NOT store more than one access token per client per PoP-key (i.e., per client's authentication credential).

# Privacy Considerations

This document specifies a profile for the Authentication and Authorization for Constrained Environments (ACE) framework {{RFC9200}}. Thus, the general privacy considerations from the ACE framework also apply to this profile.

Furthermore, the privacy considerations from OSCORE {{RFC8613}} and from EDHOC {{RFC9528}} also apply to this specific use of the OSCORE and EDHOC protocols.

An unprotected response to an unauthorized request may disclose information about RS and/or its existing relationship with C. It is advisable to include as little information as possible in an unencrypted response. When an OSCORE Security Context already exists between C and RS, more detailed information may be included.

Except for the case where C attempts to update its access rights, the (encrypted) access token is sent in an unprotected POST request to the /authz-info endpoint at RS. Thus, if C uses the same single access token from multiple locations, it can risk being tracked by the access token's value even when the access token is encrypted.


The identifiers used in OSCORE, i.e., the OSCORE Sender/Recipient IDs, are negotiated by C and RS during the EDHOC session. That is, the EDHOC Connection Identifier C\_I of C is going to be the OSCORE Recipient ID of C (the OSCORE Sender ID of RS). Conversely, the EDHOC Connection Identifier C\_R of RS is going to be the OSCORE Recipient ID of RS (the OSCORE Sender ID of C). These OSCORE identifiers are privacy sensitive (see {{Section 12.8 of RFC8613}}). In particular, they could reveal information about C, or may be used for correlating different requests from C, e.g., across different networks that C has joined and left over time. This can be mitigated if C and RS dynamically update their OSCORE identifiers, e.g., by using the method defined in {{I-D.ietf-core-oscore-key-update}}.

# IANA Considerations

This document has the following actions for IANA.

Note to RFC Editor: Please replace all occurrences of "{{&SELF}}" with the RFC number of this specification and delete this paragraph.

## ACE Profiles Registry ## {#iana-ace-oauth-profile}

IANA is asked to add the following entry to the "ACE Profiles" registry, following the procedure specified in {{RFC9200}}.

* Name: coap_edhoc_oscore
* Description: Profile for delegating client authentication and authorization in a constrained environment by establishing an OSCORE Security Context {{RFC8613}} between resource-constrained nodes, through the execution of the lightweight authenticated key exchange protocol EDHOC {{RFC9528}}.
* CBOR Value:  TBD (value between 1 and 23)
* Reference:  {{&SELF}}

## OAuth Parameters Registry ## {#iana-oauth-params}

IANA is asked to add the following entry to the "OAuth Parameters" registry.

* Name: "edhoc_info"
* Parameter Usage Location: token request and token response
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{&SELF}}

## OAuth Parameters CBOR Mappings Registry ## {#iana-oauth-cbor-mappings}

IANA is asked to add the following entry to the "OAuth Parameters CBOR Mappings" registry, following the procedure specified in {{RFC9200}}.

* Name: "edhoc_info"
* CBOR Key: TBD (value between 1 and 255)
* Value Type: map
* Reference: {{&SELF}}
* Original Specification: {{&SELF}}

## JSON Web Token Claims Registry ## {#iana-token-json-claims}

IANA is asked to add the following entries to the "JSON Web Token Claims" registry, following the procedure specified in {{RFC7519}}.

* Claim Name: "edhoc_info"
* Claim Description: Information for EDHOC session
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{&SELF}}

## CBOR Web Token (CWT) Claims Registry ## {#iana-token-cwt-claims}

IANA is asked to add the following entries to the "CBOR Web Token (CWT) Claims" registry, following the procedure specified in {{RFC8392}}.

* Claim Name: "edhoc_info"
* Claim Description: Information for EDHOC session
* JWT Claim Name: "edhoc_info"
* Claim Key: TBD (value between 1 and 255)
* Claim Value Type: map
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{&SELF}}

## JWT Confirmation Methods Registry ## {#iana-jwt-confirmation-methods}

IANA is asked to add the following entries to the "JWT Confirmation Methods" registry, following the procedure specified in {{RFC7800}}.

* Confirmation Method Value: "x5c"
* Confirmation Method Description: An ordered chain of X.509 certificates
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-jwt-conf-x5c}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Value: "x5b"
* Confirmation Method Description: An unordered bag of X.509 certificates
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-jwt-conf-x5b}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Value: "x5t"
* Confirmation Method Description: Hash of an X.509 certificate
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-jwt-conf-x5t}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Value: "x5u"
* Confirmation Method Description: URI pointing to an ordered chain of X.509 certificates
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-jwt-conf-x5u}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Value: "c5c"
* Confirmation Method Description: An ordered chain of C509 certificates
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-jwt-conf-c5c}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Value: "c5b"
* Confirmation Method Description: An unordered bag of C509 certificates
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-jwt-conf-c5b}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Value: "c5t"
* Confirmation Method Description: Hash of a C509 certificate
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-jwt-conf-c5t}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Value: "c5u"
* Confirmation Method Description: URI pointing to a COSE_C509 containing an ordered chain of C509 certificates
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-jwt-conf-c5u}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Value: "kcwt"
* Confirmation Method Description: A CBOR Web Token (CWT) containing a COSE_Key in a 'cnf' claim and possibly other claims
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-jwt-conf-kcwt}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Value: "kccs"
* Confirmation Method Description: A CWT Claims Set (CCS) containing a COSE_Key in a 'cnf' claim and possibly other claims
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-jwt-conf-kccs}} of {{&SELF}}

## CWT Confirmation Methods Registry ## {#iana-cwt-confirmation-methods}

IANA is asked to add the following entries to the "CWT Confirmation Methods" registry, following the procedure specified in {{RFC8747}}.

* Confirmation Method Name: x5chain
* Confirmation Method Description: An ordered chain of X.509 certificates
* JWT Confirmation Method Name: "x5c"
* Confirmation Key: TBD (value between 24 and 255)
* Confirmation Value Type: COSE_X509
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-cwt-conf-x5chain}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Name: x5bag
* Confirmation Method Description: An unordered bag of X.509 certificates
* JWT Confirmation Method Name: "x5b"
* Confirmation Key: TBD (value between 24 and 255)
* Confirmation Value Type: COSE_X509
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-cwt-conf-x5bag}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Name: x5t
* Confirmation Method Description: Hash of an X.509 certificate
* JWT Confirmation Method Name: "x5t"
* Confirmation Key: TBD (value between 1 and 23)
* Confirmation Value Type: COSE_CertHash
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-cwt-conf-x5t}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Name: x5u
* Confirmation Method Description: URI pointing to an ordered chain of X.509 certificates
* JWT Confirmation Method Name: "x5u"
* Confirmation Key: TBD (value between 1 and 23)
* Confirmation Value Type: uri
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-cwt-conf-x5u}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Name: c5c
* Confirmation Method Description: An ordered chain of C509 certificates
* JWT Confirmation Method Name: "c5c"
* Confirmation Key: TBD (value between 24 and 255)
* Confirmation Value Type: COSE_C509
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-cwt-conf-c5c}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Name: c5b
* Confirmation Method Description: An unordered bag of C509 certificates
* JWT Confirmation Method Name: "c5b"
* Confirmation Key: TBD (value between 24 and 255)
* Confirmation Value Type: COSE_C509
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-cwt-conf-c5b}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Name: c5t
* Confirmation Method Description: Hash of a C509 certificate
* JWT Confirmation Method Name: "c5t"
* Confirmation Key: TBD (value between 1 and 23)
* Confirmation Value Type: COSE_CertHash
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-cwt-conf-c5t}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Name: c5u
* Confirmation Method Description: URI pointing to a COSE_C509 containing an ordered chain of C509 certificates
* JWT Confirmation Method Name: "c5u"
* Confirmation Key: TBD (value between 1 and 23)
* Confirmation Value Type: uri
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-cwt-conf-c5u}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Name: kcwt
* Confirmation Method Description: A CBOR Web Token (CWT) containing a COSE_Key in a 'cnf' claim and possibly other claims
* JWT Confirmation Method Name: "kcwt"
* Confirmation Key: TBD (value between 1 and 23)
* Confirmation Value Type: COSE_Messages
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-cwt-conf-kcwt}} of {{&SELF}}

<br>

* Confirmation Method Name: kccs
* Confirmation Method Description: A CWT Claims Set (CCS) containing a COSE_Key in a 'cnf' claim and possibly other claims
* JWT Confirmation Method Name: "kccs"
* Confirmation Key: TBD (value between 1 and 23)
* Confirmation Value Type: map / #6(map)
* Change Controller: IETF
* Reference: {{ssec-cwt-conf-kccs}} of {{&SELF}}

## EDHOC External Authorization Data Registry # {#iana-edhoc-ead}

IANA is asked to add the following entries to the "EDHOC External Authorization Data" registry defined in {{Section 10.5 of RFC9528}}.

* Name: ACE-OAuth Access Token
* Label: TBD (value between 24 and 255)
* Description: An Access Token as used in the ACE-OAuth framework {{RFC9200}}
* Reference: {{&SELF}}, {{AT-in-EAD}}

<br>

* Name: Session ID
* Label: TBD (value between 1 and 23)
* Description: The identifier of an EDHOC session
* Reference: {{&SELF}}, {{AT-in-EAD}}

## EDHOC Information Registry # {#iana-edhoc-parameters}

IANA is requested to create a new "EDHOC Information" registry within the "Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman Over COSE (EDHOC)" registry group defined in {{RFC9528}}.

The registration policy is either "Private Use", "Standards Action with Expert Review", "Specification Required" per {{Section 4.6 of RFC8126}}, or "Expert Review" per {{Section 4.5 of RFC8126}}. "Expert Review" guidelines are provided in {{iana-expert-review}}.

All assignments according to "Standards Action with Expert Review" are made on a "Standards Action" basis per {{Section 4.9 of RFC8126}}, with Expert Review additionally required per {{Section 4.5 of RFC8126}}. The procedure for early IANA allocation of Standards Track code points defined in {{RFC7120}} also applies. When such a procedure is used, review and approval by the designated expert are also required, in order for the WG chairs to determine that the conditions for early allocation are met (see step 2 in {{Section 3.1 of RFC7120}}).

The columns of the registry are:

* Name: A descriptive name that enables easier reference to this item. Because a core goal of this document is for the resulting representations to be compact, it is RECOMMENDED that the name be short.

   This name is case sensitive. Names may not match other registered names in a case-insensitive manner unless the Designated Experts determine that there is a compelling reason to allow an exception. The name is not used in the CBOR encoding.

* CBOR label: The value to be used as CBOR abbreviation of the item.

   The value MUST be unique. The value can be a positive integer, a negative integer, or a string. Integer values between -256 and 255 and strings of length 1 are designated as "Standards Action with Expert Review". Integer values from -65536 to -257 and from 256 to 65535 and strings of maximum length 2 are designated as "Specification Required". Integer values greater than 65535 and strings of length greater than 2 are designated as "Expert Review". Integer values less than -65536 are marked as "Private Use".

* CBOR type: The CBOR type of the item, or a pointer to the registry that defines its type, when that depends on another item.

* Registry: The registry that values of the item may come from, if one exists.

* Description: A brief description of this item.

* Specification: A pointer to the public specification for the item, if one exists.

This registry will be initially populated by the values in {{table-cbor-key-edhoc-params}}. In the "Specification" column, the value for all of these entries will be {{&SELF}} and {{RFC9528}}.

## EDHOC Endpoint Identity Types Registry ## {#iana-edhoc-endpoint-identity-types}

IANA is requested to create a new "EDHOC Endpoint Identity Types" registry within the "Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman Over COSE (EDHOC)" registry group defined in {{RFC9528}}.

The registration policy is either "Private Use", "Standards Action with Expert Review", or "Specification Required" per {{Section 4.6 of RFC8126}}. "Expert Review" guidelines are provided in {{iana-expert-review}}.

All assignments according to "Standards Action with Expert Review" are made on a "Standards Action" basis per {{Section 4.9 of RFC8126}}, with Expert Review additionally required per {{Section 4.5 of RFC8126}}. The procedure for early IANA allocation of Standards Track code points defined in {{RFC7120}} also applies. When such a procedure is used, IANA will ask the designated expert(s) to approve the early allocation before registration. In addition, WG chairs are encouraged to consult the expert(s) early during the process outlined in {{Section 3.1 of RFC7120}}.

The columns of this registry are:

* Name: This field contains the name of the EDHOC endpoint identity type.

* CBOR label: The value to be used to identify this EDHOC endpoint identity type. These values MUST be unique. The value can be a positive integer or a negative integer. Different ranges of values use different registration policies {{RFC8126}}. Integer values from -24 to 23 are designated as "Standards Action With Expert Review". Integer values from -65536 to -25 and from 24 to 65535 are designated as "Specification Required". Integer values smaller than -65536 and greater than 65535 are marked as "Private Use".

* Description: This field contains a short description of the EDHOC endpoint identity type.

* Reference: This field contains a pointer to the public specification for the EDHOC endpoint identity type.

This registry has been initially populated with the values in {{table-edhoc-endpoint-identity-types}}.

## EDHOC Transports Registry ## {#iana-edhoc-transports}

IANA is requested to create a new "EDHOC Transports" registry within the "Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman Over COSE (EDHOC)" registry group defined in {{RFC9528}}.

The registration policy is either "Private Use", "Standards Action with Expert Review", or "Specification Required" per {{Section 4.6 of RFC8126}}. "Expert Review" guidelines are provided in {{iana-expert-review}}.

All assignments according to "Standards Action with Expert Review" are made on a "Standards Action" basis per {{Section 4.9 of RFC8126}}, with Expert Review additionally required per {{Section 4.5 of RFC8126}}. The procedure for early IANA allocation of Standards Track code points defined in {{RFC7120}} also applies. When such a procedure is used, IANA will ask the designated expert(s) to approve the early allocation before registration. In addition, WG chairs are encouraged to consult the expert(s) early during the process outlined in {{Section 3.1 of RFC7120}}.

The columns of this registry are:

* Transport ID: The value to be used to identify this means for transporting EDHOC messages. These values MUST be unique. The value can be a positive integer or a negative integer. Different ranges of values use different registration policies {{RFC8126}}. Integer values from -24 to 23 are designated as "Standards Action With Expert Review". Integer values from -65536 to -25 and from 24 to 65535 are designated as "Specification Required". Integer values smaller than -65536 and greater than 65535 are marked as "Private Use".

* Name: This field contains the name of the means for transporting EDHOC messages.

* Description: This field contains a short description of the means used for transporting EDHOC messages.

* Reference: This field contains a pointer to the public specification for the means used for transporting EDHOC messages.

This registry has been initially populated with the values in {{table-edhoc-transports}}.

## EDHOC Trust Anchor Purposes Registry  ## {#iana-edhoc-ta-purposes}

IANA is requested to create a new "EDHOC Trust Anchor Purposes" registry within the "Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman Over COSE (EDHOC)" registry group defined in {{RFC9528}}.

The registration policy is either "Private Use", "Standards Action with Expert Review", or "Specification Required" per {{Section 4.6 of RFC8126}}. "Expert Review" guidelines are provided in {{iana-expert-review}}.

All assignments according to "Standards Action with Expert Review" are made on a "Standards Action" basis per {{Section 4.9 of RFC8126}}, with Expert Review additionally required per {{Section 4.5 of RFC8126}}. The procedure for early IANA allocation of Standards Track code points defined in {{RFC7120}} also applies. When such a procedure is used, IANA will ask the designated expert(s) to approve the early allocation before registration. In addition, WG chairs are encouraged to consult the expert(s) early during the process outlined in {{Section 3.1 of RFC7120}}.

The columns of this registry are:

* Name: This field contains the descriptive name of the trust anchor purpose, to enable easier reference to the item. These names MUST be unique.

* CBOR label: This field contains the value used to identify the trust anchor purpose. These values MUST be unique. The value can be an unsigned integer or a negative integer. Different ranges of values use different registration policies:

  * Integer values from -24 to 23 are designated as "Standards Action With Expert Review".

  * Integer values from -65536 to -25 and from 24 to 65535 are designated as "Specification Required".

  * Integer values smaller than -65536 and greater than 65535 are marked as "Private Use".

* Description: This field contains a short description of the trust anchor purpose.

* Reference: This field contains a pointer to the public specification for the trust anchor purpose.

This registry has been initially populated with the values in {{sec-edhoc-ta-purposes}}.

## EDHOC Trust Anchor Types Registry  ## {#iana-edhoc-ta-types}

IANA is requested to create a new "EDHOC Trust Anchor Types" registry within the "Ephemeral Diffie-Hellman Over COSE (EDHOC)" registry group defined in {{RFC9528}}.

The registration policy is either "Private Use", "Standards Action with Expert Review", or "Specification Required" per {{Section 4.6 of RFC8126}}. "Expert Review" guidelines are provided in {{iana-expert-review}}.

All assignments according to "Standards Action with Expert Review" are made on a "Standards Action" basis per {{Section 4.9 of RFC8126}}, with Expert Review additionally required per {{Section 4.5 of RFC8126}}. The procedure for early IANA allocation of Standards Track code points defined in {{RFC7120}} also applies. When such a procedure is used, IANA will ask the designated expert(s) to approve the early allocation before registration. In addition, WG chairs are encouraged to consult the expert(s) early during the process outlined in {{Section 3.1 of RFC7120}}.

The columns of this registry are:

* Name: This field contains the descriptive name of the type of trust anchor, to enable easier reference to the item. These names MUST be unique.

* CBOR label: This field contains the value used to identify the type of trust anchor. These values MUST be unique. The value can be an unsigned integer or a negative integer. Different ranges of values use different registration policies:

  * Integer values from -24 to 23 are designated as "Standards Action With Expert Review".

  * Integer values from -65536 to -25 and from 24 to 65535 are designated as "Specification Required".

  * Integer values smaller than -65536 and greater than 65535 are marked as "Private Use".

* Value type: This field contains the CBOR type for the value portion of the label.

* Description: This field contains a short description of the type of trust anchor.

* Reference: This field contains a pointer to the public specification for the type of trust anchor.

This registry has been initially populated with the values in {{table-edhoc-ta-types}}.

## Expert Review Instructions # {#iana-expert-review}

"Standards Action with Expert Review", "Specification Required", and "Expert Review" are three of the registration policies defined for the IANA registries established in this document. This section gives some general guidelines for what the experts should be looking for, but they are being designated as experts for a reason so they should be given substantial latitude.

Expert reviewers should take into consideration the following points:

* Clarity and correctness of registrations. Experts are expected to check the clarity of purpose and use of the requested entries. Experts need to make sure that the object of registration is clearly defined in the corresponding specification. Entries that do not meet these objective of clarity and completeness must not be registered.

* Point squatting should be discouraged. Reviewers are encouraged to get sufficient information for registration requests to ensure that the usage is not going to duplicate one that is already registered and that the point is likely to be used in deployments. The zones tagged as "Private Use" are intended for testing purposes and closed environments. Code points in other ranges should not be assigned for testing.

* Specifications are required for the "Standards Action With Expert Review" range of point assignment. Specifications should exist for "Specification Required" ranges, but early assignment before a specification is available is considered to be permissible. When specifications are not provided, the description provided needs to have sufficient information to identify what the point is being used for.

* Experts should take into account the expected usage of fields when approving point assignment. Documents published via Standards Action can also register points outside the Standards Action range. The length of the encoded value should be weighed against how many code points of that length are left, the size of device it will be used on, and the number of code points left that encode to that size.

--- back

# Examples # {#examples}

This appendix provides examples where this profile of ACE is used. In particular:

* {{example-without-optimization}} does not make use of use of any optimization.

* {{example-with-optimization}} makes use of the optimizations defined in {{RFC9668}}, hence reducing the roundtrips of the interactions between the Client and the Resource Server.

All these examples build on the following assumptions, as relying on expected early procedures performed at AS. These include the registration of RSs by the respective Resource Owners as well as the registrations of Clients authorized to request access token for those RSs.

* AS knows the authentication credential AUTH_CRED_C of the Client C.

* The Client knows the authentication credential AUTH_CRED_AS of AS.

* AS knows the authentication credential AUTH_CRED_RS of RS.

* RS knows the authentication credential AUTH_CRED_AS of AS.

   This is relevant in case AS and RS actually require a secure association (e.g., for RS to perform token introspection at AS, or for AS to upload an access token to RS on behalf of the Client).

As a result of the assumptions above, it is possible to limit the transport of AUTH_CRED_C and AUTH_CRED_RS by value only to the following two cases, and only when the Client requests an access token for RS in question for the first time when considering the pair (AUTH_CRED_C, AUTH_CRED_RS).

* In the Token Response from AS to the Client, where AUTH_CRED_RS is specified by the 'rs_cnf' parameter.

* In the access token, where AUTH_CRED_C is specified by the 'cnf' claim.

Note that, even under the circumstances mentioned above, AUTH_CRED_C might rather be indicated by reference. This is possible if RS can effectively use such a reference from the access token to retrieve AUTH_CRED_C (e.g., from a trusted repository of authentication credentials reachable through a non-constrained link), and if AS is in turn aware of that.

In any other case, it is otherwise possible to indicate both AUTH_CRED_C and AUTH_CRED_RS by reference, when performing the ACE access control workflow as well as later on when the Client and RS run EDHOC.

## Workflow without Optimizations # {#example-without-optimization}

The example below shows a simple interaction between the Client and RS: C and RS run EDHOC wherein C uploads the access token to RS, and then accesses a protected resource at RS.

~~~~~~~~~~~ aasvg
    C                                 AS                             RS
    |                                  |                              |
    |  EDHOC message_1 to /edhoc       |                              |
M01 +--------------------------------->|                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  EDHOC message_2                 |                              |
M02 |<---------------------------------+                              |
    |  ID_CRED_R identifies            |                              |
    |     CRED_R = AUTH_CRED_AS        |                              |
    |     by reference                 |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  EDHOC message_3 to /edhoc       |                              |
M03 +--------------------------------->|                              |
    |  ID_CRED_I identifies            |                              |
    |     CRED_I = AUTH_CRED_C         |                              |
    |     by reference                 |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  Token request to /token         |                              |
    |  (OSCORE-protected message)      |                              |
M04 +--------------------------------->|                              |
    |  'req_cnf' identifies            |                              |
    |     AUTH_CRED_C by reference     |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  Token response                  |                              |
    |  (OSCORE-protected message)      |                              |
M05 |<---------------------------------+                              |
    |  'rs_cnf' specifies              |                              |
    |     AUTH_CRED_RS by value        |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  'ace_profile' specifies the     |                              |
    |  ACE profile "coap_edhoc_oscore" |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  'edhoc_info' specifies:         |                              |
    |     {                            |                              |
    |       e'session_id' : h'01',     |                              |
    |       e'cipher_suites' : 2,      |                              |
    |       e'methods' : 3,            |                              |
    |       e'uri_path' : "/edhoc"     |                              |
    |     }                            |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  In the access token:            |                              |
    |  - the 'cnf' claim specifies     |                              |
    |    AUTH_CRED_C by value          |                              |
    |  - the 'edhoc_info' claim        |                              |
    |    specifies the same as         |                              |
    |    'edhoc_info' above            |                              |
    |                                  |                              |

     Possibly after chain verification, the Client adds AUTH_CRED_RS
     to the set of its trusted peer authentication credentials,
     relying on AS as trusted provider/

    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  EDHOC message_1 to /edhoc       |                              |
    |  (no access control is enforced) |                              |
M06 +---------------------------------------------------------------->|
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  EDHOC message_2                 |                              |
M07 |<----------------------------------------------------------------+
    |  ID_CRED_R identifies            |                              |
    |     CRED_R = AUTH_CRED_RS        |                              |
    |     by reference                 |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  EDHOC message_3 to /edhoc       |                              |
    |  (no access control is enforced) |                              |
M08 +---------------------------------------------------------------->|
    |      EAD_3 contains access token |                              |
    |  ID_CRED_I identifies            |                              |
    |     CRED_I = AUTH_CRED_C         |                              |
    |     by reference                 |                              |
    |                                  |                              |

     Possibly after chain verification, RS adds AUTH_CRED_C
     to the set of its trusted peer authentication credentials,
     relying on AS as trusted provider/


    |                                  |                              |
    |  Access to protected resource    |                              |
    |  (OSCORE-protected message)      |                              |
    |  (access control is enforced)    |                              |
M08 +---------------------------------------------------------------->|
    |                                  |                              |
    |  Response                        |                              |
    |  (OSCORE-protected message)      |                              |
M10 |<----------------------------------------------------------------+
    |                                  |                              |

     Later on, the access token expires ...
      - The Client and RS delete their OSCORE Security Context and
        purge the EDHOC session used to derive it (unless the same
        session is also used for other reasons).
      - RS retains AUTH_CRED_C as still valid,
        and AS knows about it.
      - The Client retains AUTH_CRED_RS as still valid,
        and AS knows about it.

    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |

     Time passes ...

    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |

     The Client asks for a new access token; now all the
     authentication credentials can be indicated by reference

     The price to pay is on AS, about remembering that at least
     one access token has been issued for the pair (Client, RS)
     and considering the pair (AUTH_CRED_C, AUTH_CRED_RS)

    |                                  |                              |
    |  Token request to /token         |                              |
    |  (OSCORE-protected message)      |                              |
M11 +--------------------------------->|                              |
    |  'req_cnf' identifies            |                              |
    |     CRED_I = AUTH_CRED_C         |                              |
    |     by reference                 |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  Token response                  |                              |
    |  (OSCORE-protected message)      |                              |
M12 |<---------------------------------+                              |
    |  'rs_cnf' identifies             |                              |
    |     AUTH_CRED_RS by reference    |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  'ace_profile' specifies the     |                              |
    |  ACE profile "coap_edhoc_oscore" |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  'edhoc_info' specifies:         |                              |
    |     {                            |                              |
    |       e'session_id' : h'05',     |                              |
    |       e'cipher_suites' : 2,      |                              |
    |       e'methods' : 3,            |                              |
    |       e'uri_path' : "/edhoc"     |                              |
    |     }                            |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  In the access token:            |                              |
    |  - the 'cnf' claim specifies     |                              |
    |    AUTH_CRED_C by reference      |                              |
    |  - the 'edhoc_info' claim        |                              |
    |    specifies the same as         |                              |
    |    'edhoc_info' above            |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  EDHOC message_1 to /edhoc       |                              |
    |  (no access control is enforced) |                              |
M13 +---------------------------------------------------------------->|
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  EDHOC message_2                 |                              |
    |  (no access control is enforced) |                              |
M14 |<----------------------------------------------------------------+
    |  ID_CRED_R specifies             |                              |
    |     CRED_R = AUTH_CRED_RS        |                              |
    |     by reference                 |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  EDHOC message_3 to /edhoc       |                              |
    |  (no access control is enforced) |                              |
M15 +---------------------------------------------------------------->|
    |      EAD_3 contains access token |                              |
    |  ID_CRED_I identifies            |                              |
    |     CRED_I = AUTH_CRED_C         |                              |
    |     by reference                 |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  Access to protected resource /r |                              |
    |  (OSCORE-protected message)      |                              |
    |  (access control is enforced)    |                              |
M16 +---------------------------------------------------------------->|
    |                                  |                              |
    |                                  |                              |
    |  Response                        |                              |
    |  (OSCORE-protected message)      |                              |
M17 |<----------------------------------------------------------------+
    |                                  |                              |
~~~~~~~~~~~

## Workflow with Optimizations # {#example-with-optimization}

The example below builds on the example in {{example-without-optimization}}, while additionally using the EDHOC + OSCORE request defined in {{RFC9668}} when running EDHOC both with AS and with RS.

This interaction between C and RS consists of only two roundtrips to upload the access token, run EDHOC and access the protected resource at RS.

~~~~~~~~~~~ aasvg
    C                                   AS                           RS
    |                                    |                            |
    |  EDHOC message_1 to /edhoc         |                            |
M01 +----------------------------------->|                            |
    |                                    |                            |
    |                                    |                            |
    |  EDHOC message_2                   |                            |
M02 |<-----------------------------------+                            |
    |  ID_CRED_R identifies              |                            |
    |     CRED_R = AUTH_CRED_AS          |                            |
    |     by reference                   |                            |
    |                                    |                            |
    |                                    |                            |
    |  EDHOC + OSCORE request to /token  |                            |
M03 +----------------------------------->|                            |
    |  - EDHOC message_3                 |                            |
    |      ID_CRED_I identifies          |                            |
    |         CRED_I = AUTH_CRED_C       |                            |
    |         by reference               |                            |
    |  --- --- ---                       |                            |
    |  - OSCORE-protected part           |                            |
    |      Token request                 |                            |
    |         'req_cnf' identifies       |                            |
    |         AUTH_CRED_C by reference   |                            |
    |                                    |                            |
    |                                    |                            |
    |  Token response                    |                            |
    |  (OSCORE-protected message)        |                            |
M04 |<-----------------------------------+                            |
    |  'rs_cnf' specifies                |                            |
    |     AUTH_CRED_RS by value          |                            |
    |                                    |                            |
    |  'ace_profile' specifies the       |                            |
    |  ACE profile "coap_edhoc_oscore"   |                            |
    |                                    |                            |
    |  'edhoc_info' specifies:           |                            |
    |     {                              |                            |
    |       e'session_id' : h'01',       |                            |
    |       e'cipher_suites' : 2,        |                            |
    |       e'methods' : 3,              |                            |
    |       e'uri_path' : "/edhoc"       |                            |
    |     }                              |                            |
    |                                    |                            |
    |  In the access token:              |                            |
    |  - the 'cnf' claim specifies       |                            |
    |    AUTH_CRED_C by value            |                            |
    |  - the 'edhoc_info' claim          |                            |
    |    specifies the same as           |                            |
    |    'edhoc_info' above              |                            |
    |                                    |                            |

     Possibly after chain verification, the Client adds AUTH_CRED_RS
     to the set of its trusted peer authentication credentials,
     relying on AS as trusted provider

    |                                    |                            |
    |  EDHOC message_1 to /edhoc         |                            |
    |  (no access control is enforced)   |                            |
M05 +---------------------------------------------------------------->|
    |                                    |                            |

     Possibly after chain verification, RS adds AUTH_CRED_C
     to the set of its trusted peer authentication credentials,
     relying on AS as trusted provider

    |                                    |                            |
    |  EDHOC message_2                   |                            |
M06 |<----------------------------------------------------------------+
    |  ID_CRED_R identifies              |                            |
    |     CRED_R = AUTH_CRED_RS          |                            |
    |     by reference                   |                            |
    |                                    |                            |
    |                                    |                            |
    |  EDHOC + OSCORE request to /r      |                            |
M07 +---------------------------------------------------------------->|
    |  - EDHOC message_3                 |                            |
    |      EAD_3 contains access token   |                            |
    |      ID_CRED_I identifies          |                            |
    |         CRED_I = AUTH_CRED_C       |                            |
    |         by reference               |                            |
    |  --- --- ---                       |                            |
    |  - OSCORE-protected part           |                            |
    |      Application request to /r     |                            |
    |                                    |                            |

     After the EDHOC processing is completed, access control
     is enforced on the rebuilt OSCORE-protected request,
     like if it had been sent stand-alone

    |                                    |                            |
    |  Response                          |                            |
    |  (OSCORE-protected message)        |                            |
M08 |<----------------------------------------------------------------+
    |                                    |                            |
~~~~~~~~~~~

# Profile Requirements # {#sec-profile-requirements}

This section lists the specifications of this profile based on the requirements of the framework, as requested in {{Section C of RFC9200}}.

* Optionally, define new methods for the client to discover the necessary permissions and AS for accessing a resource, different from the one proposed in {{RFC9200}}: Not specified

* Optionally, specify new grant types: Not specified

* Optionally, define the use of client certificates as client credential type: C can use authentication credentials of any type admitted by the EDHOC protocol, including public key certificates such as X.509 and C509 certificates.

* Specify the communication protocol the client and RS must use: CoAP

* Specify the security protocol the client and RS must use to protect their communication: OSCORE

* Specify how the client and RS mutually authenticate: Explicitly, by successfully executing the EDHOC protocol, after which a common OSCORE Security Context is exported from the EDHOC session. As per the EDHOC authentication method used during the EDHOC session, authentication is provided by digital signatures, or by Message Authentication Codes (MACs) computed from an ephemeral-static ECDH shared secret.

* Specify the proof-of-possession protocol(s) and how to select one, if several are available. Also specify which key types (e.g., symmetric/asymmetric) are supported by a specific proof-of-possession protocol: proof-of-possession is first achieved by RS when successfully processing EDHOC message\_3 during the EDHOC session with C, through EDHOC algorithms and symmetric EDHOC session keys. Also, proof-of-possession is later achieved by C when receiving from RS: i) the optional EDHOC message\_4 during the EDHOC session with RS, through EDHOC algorithms and symmetric EDHOC session keys; or ii) the first response protected with the OSCORE Security Context established after the EDHOC session with RS, through OSCORE algorithms and OSCORE symmetric keys derived from the completed EDHOC session.

* Specify a unique ace_profile identifier: coap_edhoc_oscore

* If introspection is supported, specify the communication and security protocol for introspection: HTTP/CoAP (+ TLS/DTLS/OSCORE)

* Specify the communication and security protocol for interactions between client and AS: HTTP/CoAP (+ TLS/DTLS/OSCORE)

* Specify if/how the authz-info endpoint is protected, including how error responses are protected: Not protected

* Optionally, define methods of token transport other than the authz-info endpoint: C can upload the access token when executing EDHOC with RS, by including the access token in the EAD\_3 field of EDHOC message\_3 (see {{edhoc-exec}}).

# CDDL Model # {#sec-cddl-model}
{:removeinrfc}

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CDDL
; ACE Profiles
coap_edhoc_oscore = 4

; OAuth Parameters CBOR Mappings
edhoc_info_param = 47

; CBOR Web Token (CWT) Claims
edhoc_info_claim = 41

; CWT Confirmation Methods
x5t = 6
x5u = 7
c5t = 8
c5u = 9
kcwt = 10
kccs = 11
x5chain = 24
x5bag = 25
c5c = 26
c5b = 27

; EDHOC Information
session_id = 0
methods = 1
cipher_suites = 2
message_4 = 3
comb_req = 4
uri_path = 5
osc_ms_len = 6
osc_salt_len = 7
osc_version = 8
cred_types = 9
id_cred_types = 10
eads = 11
initiator = 12
responder = 13
max_msgsize = 14
coap_ct = 15
ep_id_types = 16
transports = 17
trust_anchors = 18

; EDHOC Trust Anchor Purposes
edhoc_cred = 0

; EDHOC Trust Anchor Types
c5t_ta_type = 22
c5u_ta_type = 23
x5t_ta_type = 34
x5u_ta_type = 35
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
{: #fig-cddl-model title="CDDL model" artwork-align="left"}

# Document Updates # {#sec-document-updates}
{:removeinrfc}

## Version -06 to -07 ## {#sec-06-07}

* Renamed id_ep_types as ep_id_types.

* Revised rules for the AS to assign session ID values.

* Added explicit validation of AUTH_CRED_C at AS.

* "edhoc_info" on in AS-to-C response for first token in a series.

* With a group-audience, "edhoc_info" refers to the whole audience.

* Defined parameters for the EDHOC_Information object:

  * Parameters moved here from draft-ietf-lake-app-profiles.

  * New parameter "trust_anchors".

* Access Token Request/Response messages must be encoded in CBOR.

* Explicit statement on admitted confirmation methods.

* First token in a series: the "cnf" claim uses the same confirmation method of the "req_cnf" request to /token.

* Revised examples in CBOR diagnostic notation.

* With a group-audience, the reverse message flow can use a roll call.

* Matching authentication credentials from ID_CRED_X and EAD item.

* Handling authentication credentials and EDHOC session that become invalid.

* Limited use of ACE Request Creation Hints when supporting the EDHOC reverse message flow.

* Changed CBOR abbreviations to not collide with existing codepoints.

* Updates and fixes in the IANA considerations.

* Updated references.

* Clarifications and editorial improvements.

## Version -05 to -06 ## {#sec-05-06}

* The access token can be uploaded through EDHOC in EAD_3, EAD_2, or EAD_4.

* Ruled out the upload of the access token to the /authz-info endpoint over an unprotected channel.

* Defined an EDHOC EAD item for transporting a Session ID.

* Provided more details and added example of dynamic update of access rights.

* Defined in detail the use of the EDHOC reverse message flow.

* Provided details on access token invalidity.

* Revised examples with message exchanges.

* Clarifications and editorial improvements.

## Version -04 to -05 ## {#sec-04-05}

* CBOR diagnostic notation uses placeholders from a CDDL model.

* Only CWTs are supported as access tokens in this profile.

* The alternative workflow of ACE is only mentioned as an example.

* Clarified that both the EDHOC forward and reverse message flows are possible.

* Consistent with the used EDHOC message flow, the access token can be in the EAD item of any EDHOC message.

* Explicit registration policies for the new IANA registry.

* Fixes in the IANA considerations.

* Editorial fixes and improvements.

## Version -03 to -04 ## {#sec-03-04}

* Fixed column name and prefilling of the "EDHOC Information" registry.

* Added EDHOC_Information Parameters originally in draft-tiloca-lake-app-profiles-00.

* Removed the case of transporting access token in EAD_1

* Removed redundant normative text

* Clarifications of association between access token, session_id, EDHOC session and OSCORE security context

* Updated references.

* Editorial fixes and improvements.

## Version -02 to -03 ## {#sec-02-03}

* Restructured presentation of content.

* Simplified description of the use of EDHOC_Information.

* Merged the concepts of EDHOC "session_id" and identifier of token series.

* Enabled the transport of the access token also in EDHOC EAD_3.

* Defined semantics of the newly defined CWT/JWT Confirmation Methods.

* Clarifications and editorial improvements.

## Version -01 to -02 ## {#sec-01-02}

* Removed use of EDHOC_KeyUpdate.

* The Security Context is updated either by KUDOS or a rerun of EDHOC.

* The alternative workflow (AS token posting) is specified in separate draft.

* Fixed and updated examples.

* Editorial improvements.

## Version -00 to -01 ## {#sec-00-01}

* Fixed semantics of the ead_value for transporting an Access Token in the EAD_1 field.

* Error handling aligned with EDHOC.

* Precise characterization of the EDHOC execution considered for EDHOC-KeyUpdate.

* Fixed message exchange examples.

* Added appendix with profile requirements.

* Updated references.

* Clarifications and editorial improvements.

# Acknowledgments # {#acknowldegment}
{:numbered="false"}

The authors sincerely thank {{{Christian Amsüss}}} and {{{Carsten Bormann}}} for their comments and feedback.

The parameter "trust_anchors" for specifying supported trust anchors builds on a proposal originally described in {{I-D.serafin-lake-ta-hint}}.

This work was supported by the Sweden's Innovation Agency VINNOVA within the EUREKA CELTIC-NEXT project CYPRESS; and by the H2020 project SIFIS-Home (Grant agreement 952652).
